Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects" or similar words indicating that future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For additional factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see "Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements". 2  PART I Item 1. BUSINESS U. S. Steel has five reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products ("Flat rolled"), Tubular Products ("Tubular"), U. S. Steel Kosice ("USSK"), USS Real Estate ("Real Estate") and Straightline Source ("Straightline"). The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, plate and tin mill products. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the transportation (including automotive), appliance, service center, conversion, container, and construction markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities and an equity investee involved in the production of tubular goods. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The USSK segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels integrated steel mill located in the Slovak Republic; a production facility in Germany; operations under facility management and support agreements in Serbia; and equity investees, primarily located in Central Europe. These operations produce and sell sheet, plate, tin, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products, as well as coke. USSK primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, appliance, transportation, service center, container, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The Straightline segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels technology enabled distribution business that serves steel customers primarily in the eastern and central United States. Straightline competes in the steel service center marketplace using a nontraditional business process to sell, process and deliver flat rolled steel products in small to medium sized order quantities primarily to job shops, contract manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers across an array of industries. The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels mineral interests that are not assigned to U. S. Steel Mining LLC ("USS Mining") or to the iron ore operations at Mt. Iron, Minnesota ("Minntac"); timber properties; and residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed and developed for sale or lease. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of coal, coke and iron bearing taconite pellets; transportation services; and engineering and consulting services. The following table sets forth the total revenues of U. S. Steel for each of the last three years. Revenues and other income (Millions) 2002 2001 2000 Revenues by product: Sheet and semi finished steel products $ 4,048 $ 3,163 $ 3,288 Plate and tin mill products 1,057 1,273 977 Tubular products 554 755 754 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore) 502 485 626 Other(a) 788 610 445 Income (loss) from investees 33 64 (8 ) Net gains on disposal of assets 29 22 46 Other income 43 3 4 Total revenues and other income $ 7,054 $ 6,375 $ 6,132 (a)Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; steel mill products distribution; the management of mineral resources; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. 3 Steel Industry Background and Competition The steel industry is cyclical and highly competitive and is affected by excess global capacity, which has restricted price increases during periods of economic growth and led to price decreases during periods of economic contraction. In addition, the steel industry faces competition in many markets from producers of materials such as aluminum, cement, composites, glass, plastics and wood. U. S. Steel is the largest integrated steel producer in North America and, through its subsidiary USSK, the largest integrated flat rolled producer in Central Europe. U. S. Steel competes with many domestic and foreign steel producers. Competitors include integrated producers which, like U. S. Steel, use iron ore and coke as primary raw materials for steel production, and mini mills, which primarily use steel scrap and, increasingly, iron bearing feedstocks as raw materials. Mini mills generally produce a narrower range of steel products than integrated producers, but typically enjoy certain competitive advantages in the markets in which they compete through lower capital expenditures for construction of facilities and non unionized work forces with lower total employment costs and more flexible work rules. Mini mills utilize thin slab casting technology to produce flat rolled products and are increasingly able to compete directly with integrated producers of flat rolled products. Depending on market conditions, the production generated by flat rolled mini mills could have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels selling prices and shipment levels. The domestic steel industry is restructuring after many years of oversupply and low prices attributable largely to excess imports, which resulted in significant capacity closures starting in late 2000 and led to the introduction of Section 201 import tariffs in March 2002. The combination of capacity closures, trade restrictions and the imposition of tariffs led to a recovery of steel prices from 20 year lows in late 2001 and early 2002. U. S. Steel benefited in 2002 from reduced domestic supply resulting from the temporary or permanent closure of steelmaking capacity, as well as the Section 201 remedies announced by President Bush on March 5, 2002. Despite the trade remedies, steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 27% of the domestic steel market in 2002, compared to 24% and 27%, for 2001 and 2000, respectively. In 2002, imports of steel pipe and cold rolled sheets decreased 16% and 38%, respectively, compared to 2001; and imports of hot rolled sheets and galvanized sheets increased 61% and 39%, respectively, compared to 2001. Remedies under Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 became effective for imports entering the U.S. on and after March 20, 2002, and are intended to provide protection against imports from certain countries, but there are products and countries not covered, and imports of these exempt products or of products from these countries may still have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels revenues and income. Through August 2002, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the Office of the United States Trade Representative had granted exclusions from the Section 201 remedies for many products, and another round of processing requests for exclusion is in process. The exclusions impact a number of products produced by U. S. Steel and have weakened the protection initially provided by this relief. Additionally, as initially imposed, the remedies decrease each year they are in effect. For flat rolled products, the tariff decreases from 30% in the first year to 24% in the second year and 16% in the third year, and the quota for slab imports that can enter the United States without imposition of the Section 201 tariff increases from 5.4 million net tons in the first year to 5.9 million net tons in the second year and 6.4 million net tons in the third year, although the quantity of slabs that can actually enter the country free of tariffs is substantially larger than that amount due to exemptions of various slab products and exemptions of certain countries that ship slabs. Various countries have challenged President Bushs action with the World Trade Organization ("WTO") and have taken other actions responding to the Section 201 remedies. The WTO is expected to announce its initial decision on the challenges filed against the Section 201 action by April 2003. In addition, as provided by President Bush when he announced the Section 201 action in March 2002, the U.S. International Trade Commission will conduct a mid term review in the third quarter of 2003 and recommend to the 4 President whether the remedies should remain in effect. At the same time, the Bush Administration has continued discussions at the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development aimed at the reduction of inefficient steel production capacity and the elimination and limitation of certain subsidies to the steel industry throughout the world. On March 31, 2002, the Canadian International Trade Tribunal ("CITT") initiated a safeguard inquiry to determine whether imports of certain steel goods from countries, including the U.S., had injured the Canadian steel industry. On July 5, 2002, the CITT announced its determination that the Canadian steel industry had been injured by reason of imports of certain products including the following which are made by U. S. Steel: cut to length plate, cold rolled steel sheet and standard pipe up to 16" o.d. On August 20, 2002, the CITT announced that it was recommending as a remedy a three year quota, with tariffs imposed on tonnages exceeding the quota. This resulted in quota levels for the U.S. which are lower than 2001 shipments. For shipments exceeding the quota levels, tariffs would be imposed ranging from 15 25% in the first year, 11 18% in the second year and 7 12% in the third year. The CITTs remedy recommendations were forwarded to the Ministry of Finance, but a final decision regarding a remedy has not yet been made. U. S. Steels domestic businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, emission and discharge of environmentally sensitive materials. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. For further information, see "Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings" on page 21 and "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies" on page 46. USSK does business primarily in Central and Western Europe and is subject to market conditions in those areas which are influenced by many of the same factors which affect domestic markets, as well as matters peculiar to international markets such as quotas and tariffs. USSK is affected by the worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the cyclical nature of demand for steel products and the sensitivity of that demand to worldwide general economic conditions. In particular, USSK is subject to economic conditions and political factors in Europe, which if changed could negatively affect its results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSK is also subject to foreign currency exchange risks because its revenues are primarily in euros and its costs are primarily in Slovak koruna and U. S. dollars. On December 20, 2001, the European Commission commenced an anti dumping investigation concerning hot rolled coils imported into the European Union ("EU") from the Slovak Republic and five other countries. On January 20, 2003, the Commission issued a final disclosure advising of its determinations relative to the dumping and injury margins applicable to those imports. The Commissions findings set the dumping margin applicable to those imports at 25.8% and the injury margin at 18.6%. USSK is currently in discussions with the Commission regarding the possibility of entering into a price undertaking agreement which would set minimum prices for future shipments of hot rolled coils into the EU. If no price undertaking agreement is reached, at the conclusion of these proceedings (which must occur by March 20, 2003), duties equal to the injury margin of 18.6% will be imposed upon hot rolled coils shipped by USSK into the EU. All anti dumping measures, including any price undertaking agreement, will be terminated at such time that Slovakia becomes a member of the EU, which is currently anticipated to occur in May 2004. 5 Definitive measures were recently announced in a separate safeguard trade action commenced by the European Commission. In that proceeding, which is similar to the U.S. Section 201 proceedings, quota/tariff measures were announced relative to the import of certain steel products into the EU. USSK is impacted by the quota/tariff measures on four products: non alloy hot rolled coils, hot rolled strip, hot rolled sheet and cold rolled flat products. Shipment quotas were set for all four products. The shipment quotas applicable to the first year of the measure were set at 10% above the average shipments during the period 1999 2001. An additional 5% will be added to the shipment quotas applicable to the remainder of the safeguard measure period. The shipment quotas on all products, other than non alloy hot rolled coils, are country specific. The non alloy hot rolled coil quota is a global quota. If the shipment quotas are exceeded, tariffs will be imposed. The tariffs which would apply to shipments into the EU through March 28, 2003, are 17.5% for non alloy hot rolled coils and 26% for the other three products. For the period March 29, 2003, through March 28, 2004, these tariffs will be reduced to 15.7% and 23.4%, respectively. On March 29, 2004, these tariffs will again be reduced to 14.1% and 21.0%, respectively. The safeguard measures are scheduled to expire on March 28, 2005. These measures will be terminated at such time that Slovakia becomes a member of the EU. Safeguard proceedings similar to those pursued by the European Commission have recently been commenced by Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. Provisional quota/tariff measures have been imposed in Poland and Hungary. To date, the Czech Republic has neither imposed provisional safeguard measures nor announced definitive measures. The impact on USSK of these trade actions in the EU and Central Europe cannot be predicted at this time. However, in light of market opportunities elsewhere, recent developments in the EU hot rolled coil anti dumping case and USSKs experience operating under the safeguard measures in place in the EU, Poland and Hungary, it appears unlikely that these matters will have a material adverse affect on USSKs operating profit in 2003. Business Strategy U. S. Steels business strategy is to grow its investment in high end finishing assets, to expand globally and to continually reduce costs. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets where management believes that U. S. Steels leadership position, production and processing capabilities and technical service provide a competitive advantage. These products include advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, higher strength plate products, improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods. U. S. Steel continues to enhance its value added businesses through the upgrading and modernization of its key production facilities. Recent modernization projects include, for the automotive industry the vacuum degassing facilities at Mon Valley Works and USSK, the second hot dip galvanizing line at PRO TEC Coating Company ("PRO TEC"), the Fairless Plant galvanizing line upgrade, the cold reduction mill upgrades at Gary Works and Mon Valley Works and construction of an automotive technical center in Detroit, Michigan; for the construction industry the dual coating lines at Fairfield Works and Mon Valley Works; for the tubular market the Fairfield Works pipemill upgrade, acquiring full ownership of Lorain Tubular and the construction of a quench and temper line at Lorain Tubular, which is expected to be completed late in the third quarter of 2003; and for the plate market the heat treat facility at the Gary Works plate mill. Also, a new pickle line was built at the Mon Valley Works to replace three older and less efficient facilities. U. S. Steel continues to be interested in participating in consolidation of the domestic steel industry as part of its focus on growing its investment in high end finishing assets, if it would be beneficial to customers, shareholders, creditors and employees. Among the factors that would impact U. S. Steels participation in consolidation are the nature and extent of relief from the burden of obligations related to existing retirees from other domestic steel companies, which may come through 6 the bankruptcy process or otherwise, the terms of a new labor agreement and progress in President Bushs program to address worldwide steel overcapacity. Through its November 2000 purchase of USSK, which owns the steel producing operations and related assets formerly held by VSZ, a.s. in the Slovak Republic, U. S. Steel initiated a major offshore expansion and followed many of its customers into the European market. U. S. Steels objective is to use USSK as a base for expansion in growing central and western European markets. U. S. Steel continues to explore additional opportunities for investment in Central and Western Europe to serve those customers who are seeking worldwide supply arrangements. U. S. Steel has a long range strategy to operate a global company, integrating its European and domestic operations to best serve customers. U. S. Steel has a commitment to continuously reduce costs and previously announced a plan to reduce domestic costs by $30 per ton over a three year period beginning with 2002. Currently, domestic operations are ahead of this plan, which should ultimately result in annual operating savings of over $300 million, from 2001 levels, by the end of 2004. USSK also has a cost reduction program that has reduced costs by more than $30 per ton since USSKs acquisition in November 2000. U. S. Steel has also entered into a number of joint ventures with domestic and foreign partners to take advantage of market or manufacturing opportunities in the sheet, tin mill, tubular and plate consuming industries. The following table lists products and services by facility or business unit: Domestic Operations Gary Works Sheets; Tin Mill; Plates; Coke Mon Valley Works Sheets Fairfield Works Sheets; Tubular USS POSCO Industries(a) Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(a) Galvanized Sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(a) Steel processing Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(a) Electrogalvanized Sheets Olympic Laser Processing(a) Steel processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de CV(a) Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Tubular Tubular Delta Tubular Processing(a) Tubular processing USS Real Estate Administration of mineral interests and timber properties; Real estate development, sales, leasing and management Straightline Source Steel mill products distribution Clairton Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Coke Transtar Inc. Transportation Minntac Taconite Pellets USS Mining Coal UEC Technologies LLC Engineering and consulting services International Operations U. S. Steel Kosice Sheets; Tin Mill; Plates; Coke Walzwerke Finow Precision steel tubes; specialty shaped sections Rannila Kosice(a) Color coated profile and construction products (a)Equity investee During 2002 and early 2003, U. S. Steel took several significant actions to implement its business strategy. On April 10, 2002, U. S. Steel announced that it had signed a letter of intent to sell all of the coal and related assets associated with USS Minings West Virginia and Alabama mines. U. S. Steel and the purchaser continue discussions. 7 On January 9, 2003, U. S. Steel announced that it had signed an Asset Purchase Agreement ("APA") with National Steel Corporation ("National") to acquire substantially all of Nationals steelmaking and finishing assets for approximately $950 million, which includes the assumption of approximately $200 million of liabilities. Management believes that the acquisition of National would significantly increase U. S. Steels value added production capabilities and enhance U. S. Steels ability to serve the needs of North American customers in the automotive, container, appliance and construction industries. The closing of the agreement with National was contingent on, among other things, the approval of the Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, and the execution and ratification of a new labor agreement with the United Steelworkers of America ("USWA") with respect to the steelworkers at the National facilities to be acquired. On January 30, 2003, National announced that it had signed an agreement with another party, under which National would sell substantially all of its assets, including its pellet making facility, for $1,125 million, consisting of cash and the assumption of approximately $200 million of liabilities. The closing of the agreement between National and the other party is contingent on, among other things, the approval of the Bankruptcy Court and the execution and ratification of a new labor agreement with the USWA with respect to the steelworkers at the National facilities to be acquired. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Chicago established an auction period for National Steels assets that began on February 6, 2003, and will end on April 7, 2003. On February 10, 2003, U. S. Steel announced that it would immediately begin bargaining with the USWA to reach a new, progressive labor contract covering facilities now owned by bankrupt National as well as the USWA represented plants of U. S. Steel. U. S. Steel remains interested in acquiring the assets of National if it is able to reach a new labor agreement with the USWA for the steelworkers at the National facilities and acquire the assets at a price that it views to be appropriate in light of conditions in the steel and financial markets at the time of the auction. U. S. Steel is in discussions with the USWA regarding such a labor agreement, as well as other matters, including our mutual interest in encouraging consolidation in the North American integrated steel industry. U. S. Steel also continues to evaluate other potential domestic acquisitions. Management cannot assure that U. S. Steel will participate in or prevail at the auction for Nationals assets. U. S. Steel expanded its presence in Central Europe in 2002 by entering into toll processing and other agreements with Sartid a.d. ("Sartid") that are discussed in detail on page 14. Also, on February 10, 2003, U. S. Steel submitted an indicative, non binding proposal to the Government of Poland for the purchase of Polskie Huty Stali S.A. ("PHS"), the government owned steel company. In accordance with its confidentiality agreement with the Polish Government, U. S. Steel did not disclose the terms of its offer. On February 18, 2003, U. S. Steel was advised that it had been admitted to the next round of the privatization process. The Polish Government has indicated its desire to complete the privatization by September 30, 2003. Earlier this year four of Polands steel mills, including the two largest integrated facilities, were consolidated under PHS, which currently has annual raw steel production capability of approximately 9.0 million tons. PHSs steelmaking capability is expected to be reduced as a result of negotiations related to Polands accession into the EU. PHS primarily produces blooms, rails, wire and other long products, as well as plate and sheet products. Domestic Operations Our domestic operations include plants that produce steel products in a variety of forms and grades. Raw steel production was 11.5 million tons in 2002, compared with 10.1 million tons in 2001 and 11.4 million tons in 2000. Raw steel production averaged 90% of capability in 2002, compared with 79% of capability in 2001 and 89% of capability in 2000. U. S. Steels stated annual raw steel production capability for domestic operations was 12.8 millions tons for 2002, 2001 and 2000 (7.5 million at Gary Works, 2.9 million at Mon Valley Works, and 2.4 million at Fairfield Works). Flat rolled shipments were 9.9 million tons in 2002, 8.8 million tons in 2001 and 9.6 million tons in 2000. Tubular shipments were 0.8 million tons in 2002, 1.0 million tons in 2001 and 1.1 million tons in 2000. Exports accounted for approximately 5% of U. S. Steels domestic shipments in 2002, 2001 and 2000. 8  The following tables set forth steel shipment data for U. S. Steel domestic operations by major markets and products for each of the last three years. Such data does not include shipments by joint ventures and other investees of U. S. Steel accounted for by the equity method, or shipments by Straightline. Steel Shipments By Market and Product (domestic production only) Sheets & Semi finished Steel Plate & Tin Mill Products Tubular Products Total Major Market 2002 (Thousands of Net Tons) Steel Service Centers 2,038 624 11 2,673 Further Conversion: Trade Customers 812 464 35 1,311 Joint Ventures 1,550 1,550 Transportation (Including Automotive) 1,057 160 5 1,222 Containers 186 677 863 Construction and Construction Products 737 143 880 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 58 589 647 Export 359 10 132 501 All Other 943 82 1 1,026 TOTAL 7,682 2,218 773 10,673 Major Market 2001 (Thousands of Net Tons) Steel Service Centers 1,649 761 11 2,421 Further Conversion: Trade Customers 718 429 6 1,153 Joint Ventures 1,328 1,328 Transportation (Including Automotive) 964 176 3 1,143 Containers 154 625 779 Construction and Construction Products 626 168 794 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 65 830 895 Export 316 35 171 522 All Other 656 109 1 766 TOTAL 6,411 2,368 1,022 9,801 Major Market 2000 (Thousands of Net Tons) Steel Service Centers 1,636 646 33 2,315 Further Conversion: Trade Customers 742 428 4 1,174 Joint Ventures 1,771 1,771 Transportation (Including Automotive) 1,206 248 12 1,466 Containers 182 520 702 Construction and Construction Products 778 158 936 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 35 938 973 Export 346 41 157 544 All Other 748 126 1 875 TOTAL 7,409 2,202 1,145 10,756 Flat rolled Flat rolled produces sheet, plate and tin mill products; sheet products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated. Value added cold rolled and coated products comprised 64% of Flat rolleds 9 sheet shipments in 2002. Flat rolleds sheet customer base includes automotive, appliance, service center, conversion and construction customers. U. S. Steel has long standing relationships with many of its customers, as do its joint ventures. In recent years, U. S. Steel has made a number of key investments directed toward the automotive industry, including upgrades to its steelmaking facilities to increase its capacity for both high strength and highly formable steels, upgrades to the Fairless galvanizing line to produce automotive quality product and construction of an automotive technical center in Michigan to enhance its product development capability. In addition, a number of U. S. Steels joint ventures expanded their automotive supply capability, most notably PRO TEC, which now has annual hot dipped galvanizing capability of 1.0 million tons per year. U. S. Steels development in advanced high strength steel has been described as the best and broadest portfolio in North America. The plate and tin mill products businesses complement the larger steel sheet business by producing specialized products for specific markets. U. S. Steels plate business is located within the Gary Works complex and is a major supplier to the transportation, industrial, agricultural, and construction equipment markets. Its modern plate heat treating facilities provide customers with specialized plates for critical applications. U. S. Steel supplies a full line of tin plate and tin free steel ("TFS") products, primarily used in the container industry. U. S. Steels acquisition of East Chicago Tin in 2001 has provided operating synergies and the opportunity to better serve customers. Coupled with USSKs tin capability, U. S. Steel anticipates being in a prime position to service customers who have a global presence. U. S. Steel participates directly and through subsidiaries in a number of joint ventures which are included in Flat rolled. All such joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method. Certain of the joint ventures and other investments are described below, all of which are 50% owned except Acero Prime, S.R.L. de CV ("Acero Prime"), in which U. S. Steel holds a 44% interest. For financial information regarding joint ventures and other investments, see "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to Financial Statements 15. Investments and Long Term Receivables." U. S. Steel and Pohang Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. ("POSCO") of South Korea participate in a joint venture, USS POSCO Industries ("USS POSCO"), which owns and operates the former U. S. Steel plant in Pittsburg, California. The joint venture markets high quality sheet and tin mill products, principally in the western United States. USS POSCO produces cold rolled sheets, galvanized sheets, tin plate and TFS from hot bands principally provided by U. S. Steel and POSCO. On May 31, 2001, a fire damaged USS POSCOs facilities. The start up in the first quarter of 2002 included the commissioning and subsequent operation of a rebuilt pickle line and cold mill unit. Total shipments by USS POSCO were 1.2 million tons in 2002. U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. participate in a joint venture, PRO TEC, which owns and operates two hot dip galvanizing lines in Leipsic, Ohio. The first galvanizing line commenced operations in early 1993. In November 1998, operations commenced on a second hot dip galvanizing line which expanded PRO TECs capability nearly 400,000 tons a year to 1.0 million tons annually. Total shipments by PRO TEC were 1.1 million tons in 2002. U. S. Steel and Worthington Industries, Inc. participate in a joint venture known as Worthington Specialty Processing, which operates a steel processing facility in Jackson, Michigan. The plant is operated by Worthington Industries, Inc. The facility contains state of the art technology capable of processing master steel coils into both slit coils and sheared first operation blanks including rectangles, trapezoids, parallelograms and chevrons. It is designed to meet specifications for the automotive, appliance, furniture and metal door industries. In 2002, Worthington Specialty Processing shipments were 250 thousand tons. 10 U. S. Steel and Rouge Steel Company participate in Double Eagle Steel Coating Company ("DESCO"), a joint venture which operates an electrogalvanizing facility located in Dearborn, Michigan. This facility enables U. S. Steel to supply the automotive demand for steel with corrosion resistant properties. The facility can coat both sides of sheet steel with free zinc or zinc alloy coatings. Availability of the facility is shared equally by the partners. On December 15, 2001, production at DESCO was halted due to a fire. The facility restarted operations on September 10, 2002, with full operating levels achieved by December 2002. In 2002, DESCO produced 163 thousand tons of electrogalvanized steel. U. S. Steel and Olympic Steel, Inc. participate in a 50 50 joint venture to process laser welded sheet steel blanks at a facility in Van Buren, Michigan. The joint venture conducts business as Olympic Laser Processing. Laser welded blanks are used in the automotive industry for an increasing number of body fabrication applications. U. S. Steel is the ventures primary customer and is responsible for marketing the laser welded blanks. In 2002, Olympic Laser Processing shipped 1.7 million parts. U. S. Steel, through its wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Export Company de Mexico, along with Feralloy Mexico, S.R.L. de C.V., and Intacero de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., participate in a joint venture, Acero Prime, which operates slitting and warehousing facilities in San Luis Potosi, Mexico. In 2001, an expansion project was completed which involved the construction of a 60,000 square foot addition that doubled the facilitys size and total warehousing capacity. A second slitting line was installed as part of the project. Also, a new 70,000 square foot, in bond warehouse facility was built in Coahuilla state in Ramos Arizpe. The warehouse stores and manages coil inventories. As previously discussed, on January 9, 2003, U. S. Steel announced that it had signed an APA with National to acquire substantially all of Nationals steelmaking and finishing assets. National is engaged in the production and sale of a wide variety of flat rolled steel products, including hot rolled, cold rolled, galvanized, tin and chrome plated. (See discussion on page 8.) Tubular U. S. Steels tubular production facilities are located at Fairfield, Alabama; Lorain, Ohio; and McKeesport, Pennsylvania and produce both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products. U. S. Steel supplies over 50% of the domestic market for seamless standard and line pipe and 25% of the domestic market for oil country tubular goods. With the successful conversion in 1999 of the Fairfield piercing mill to process rounds plus the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in Lorain Tubular, U. S. Steel has the capability to produce 1.6 million tons of tubular products in the 5 million ton tubular markets it serves. A quench and temper line is currently under construction at Lorain Tubular and commissioning is expected to occur late in the third quarter of 2003. U. S. Steel, through a wholly owned subsidiary, USS Tubular Processing, Inc., and Camp Hill Tubular Processing Corporation participate in a 50 50 joint venture partnership known as Delta Tubular Processing. The partnership was established in 1989 and is located in Houston, Texas. The facility is capable of forging (upsetting), heat treating, and threading tubular product to serve the oil country tubular market. Straightline Straightline specializes in the distribution of processed, flat rolled steel products to companies of all sizes that do not typically buy steel products directly from steel producers. Through its integrated systems and its network of processors, steel suppliers and transportation carriers, Straightline operates in 34 states from Maine to Florida in the East, and through Minnesota to Texas in the central United States. This network allows Straightline to hold inventory and perform processing close to the customers operations. U. S. Steel believes this approach provides the opportunity to lower the total 11 cost of procurement for job shops, contract manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers across an array of industries. Real Estate Real Estate manages U. S. Steels mineral interests that are not assigned to USS Mining or to Minntac, timber properties and real estate assets. These assets and properties include approximately 300,000 acres of surface rights and 1,500,000 acres of mineral rights in 14 states. Income is derived primarily from mineral royalties, the sale of developed and undeveloped land, and real estate leases. The primary sources of mineral royalties are from leases to produce coal and coal seam gas in Alabama. Real estate development and sales occur over approximately 20,000 acres of residential, commercial and industrial development and brownfield industrial redevelopment principally in Alabama, Pennsylvania and Maryland. Undeveloped land sales occur primarily in Alabama, Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin. Real estate lease income is derived from various leases primarily in Pennsylvania and Alabama. Other Businesses U. S. Steel and its wholly owned subsidiary, USS Mining, have domestic coal properties with proven and probable bituminous coal reserves of approximately 775 million short tons at year end 2002. The reserves are of metallurgical and steam quality in approximately equal proportions. They are located in Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and West Virginia. Approximately 94% of the reserves are owned, and the balance are leased. The leased properties are covered by leases which expire in 2005 and 2012. USS Minings coal production was 5.5 million tons in 2002, compared with 4.8 million tons in 2001 and 5.1 million tons in 2000. U. S. Steel has coke production facilities at Clairton Works and Gary Works. Clairton is comprised of nine coke batteries owned and operated by U. S. Steel and an additional three coke batteries that are operated for the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. ("1314B Partnership"), which is discussed below. Clairton (including the 1314B Partnership) produces coke for the domestic steel industry and produced 4.5 million tons of coke in 2002, 4.3 million tons in 2001 and 4.5 million tons in 2000. Approximately 30 percent of annual production is consumed by U. S. Steel facilities and the remainder is sold to other domestic steel producers. Some of the coke oven gas produced at the batteries is consumed by U. S. Steels Mon Valley Works and coke by products are sold to the chemicals and raw materials industries. Gary Works has four operating coke batteries which produced 2.1 million tons in 2002, and 2.0 million tons in 2001 and 2000. All of the coke produced at Gary Works is consumed internally. Gary Works also consumes a portion of the coke oven gas it produces and sells coke by products. U. S. Steel controls domestic iron ore properties having proven and probable iron ore reserves in grades subject to beneficiation processes in commercial use by U. S. Steel domestic operations of approximately 764 million short tons at year end 2002, substantially all of which are iron ore concentrate equivalents available from low grade iron bearing materials. All reserves are located in Minnesota. Approximately 38 percent of these reserves are owned and the remaining 62 percent are leased. Most of the leased reserves are covered by a lease expiring in 2058 and the remaining leases have expiration dates ranging from 2021 to 2026. U. S. Steels iron ore operations at Minntac produced 16.4 million net tons of taconite pellets in 2002, 14.2 million net tons in 2001 and 16.2 million net tons in 2000. Taconite pellet shipments were 16.2 million tons in 2002, compared with 14.9 million tons in 2001 and 15.0 million tons in 2000. U. S. Steel owns 100% of Transtar, Inc. Transtar and its subsidiaries (the EJ&E Railroad in Illinois; Lake Terminal Railroad in Ohio; Union Railroad and McKeesport Connecting Railroad in Pennsylvania; and the Birmingham Southern Railroad, Fairfield Southern Railroad, Mobile River 12 Terminal, and Warrior and Gulf Navigation all located in Alabama) comprise U. S. Steels transportation business. Transtar provides rail and barge transportation services to a number of U. S. Steels domestic facilities as well as other domestic customers in the steel, coal, chemicals, oil refining and forest production industries. UEC Technologies LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of U. S. Steel, sells technical services worldwide to the steel, mining, chemical and related industries. Together with its subsidiary companies, it provides engineering and consulting services for facility expansions and modernizations, operating improvement projects, integrated computer systems, coal and lubrication testing and environmental projects. U. S. Steel is the sole general partner of and owns an equity interest in the 1314B Partnership. As general partner, U. S. Steel is responsible for operating and selling coke and by products from the partnerships three coke batteries located at U. S. Steels Clairton Works. U. S. Steels share of profits and losses during 2002 was 1.75%, except for its share of depreciation and amortization, which increased to 45.75% in April of 2002. On January 1, 2003, U. S. Steels share of all profit and losses increased to 45.75%. The partnership at times had operating cash shortfalls in 2002 and 2001 that were funded with loans from U. S. Steel. There were no outstanding loans with the partnership at December 31, 2002, and $3 million was outstanding at December 31, 2001. U. S. Steel may dissolve the partnership under certain circumstances including if it is required to make equity investments or loans in excess of $150 million to fund such shortfalls. U. S. Steel owns a 16% investment in Republic Technologies International, LLC ("Republic"). On April 2, 2001, Republic filed to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Republic was a major purchaser of raw materials from U. S. Steel and the primary supplier of rounds for Lorain Tubular. Republic continued to supply Lorain Tubular since filing for bankruptcy until August 2002 when it sold substantially all of its assets to Republic Engineered Products LLC ("the New Company"). U. S. Steel does not have an ownership interest in the New Company, which continues as a major purchaser of raw materials and as the primary supplier of rounds for Lorain Tubular. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had no remaining financial exposure to Republic. As previously mentioned, during 2002, U. S. Steel signed letters of intent to sell all of the coal and related assets associated with USS Minings West Virginia and Alabama mines. The coal and related assets to be sold include approximately 17% of U. S. Steels recoverable coal reserves. See Supplementary Information on Mineral Reserves Other Than Oil and Gas (Unaudited) on page F 42. International Operations USSK In November 2000, U. S. Steel acquired USSK, headquartered in Kosice in the Slovak Republic, which owns the steelmaking operations and related assets formerly held by VSZ, a.s., making U. S. Steel the largest flat rolled producer in Central Europe. Currently, USSK has annual steelmaking capability of 5.0 million net tons and produces and sells sheet, plate, tin, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products, as well as coke. USSKs strategy is to serve existing U. S. Steel customers in Central and Western Europe, grow its customer base in these regions, and advance USSK to be a leading European steel producer and the prime supplier of flat rolled steel to growing central and western European markets. USSK produces steel products in a variety of forms and grades. In 2002, USSK raw steel production was 4.4 million tons. USSK has three blast furnaces, two steel shops with two vessels each, a dual strand caster attached to each steel shop, a hot strip mill, a cold rolling mill, two pickling lines, two galvanizing lines, a tin coating line, two dynamo lines, a color coating line and two coke batteries. During 2002, USSK started up a vacuum degassing facility to increase its capability to produce steel 13 grades required for high value applications, and is currently installing a continuous annealing line and a second tin coating line to expand its supply of tin mill products. Construction of a third dynamo line has begun, with start up scheduled to occur in 2004. USSKs steel shipments totaled 3.9 million net tons in 2002. In addition, USSK owns 100% of Walzwerk Finow GmbH, located in eastern Germany, which produces and ships about 90,000 tons per year of welded precision steel tubes and cold rolled specialty shaped sections from both cold rolled and hot rolled product supplied primarily by USSK. USSK also has facilities for manufacturing heating radiators and spiral weld pipe. A majority of product sales by USSK are denominated in euros while only a small percentage of expenditures are in euros. In addition, most interest and debt payments are in U.S. dollars and the majority of other spending is in U.S. dollars and Slovak koruna. This results in exposure to currency fluctuations. U. S. Steel continually evaluates the currency mix of USSKs cash flows. Significant changes in currency mix, such as Slovakias admission to the EU and adoption of euro currency, could result in a change in the functional currency from U.S. dollars to euros in the future. Ranilla Kosice, s.r.o., which is 49% owned by USSK and 51% owned by Rautaruukki Oyj, processes coated sheets, both galvanized and painted, into various forms which are primarily used in the construction industry. USSK supplies most of Rannila Kosices raw materials; however, Rannila Kosice markets its own finished products. Beginning in March 2002 and continuing throughout the year, USSK entered into various commercial arrangements with Sartid, an integrated steel company with facilities located in Smederevo and Sabac in the Republic of Serbia. Tolling agreements provide for the conversion of cold rolled full hard into tin coated products, and raw materials into hot rolled bands and other finished products. USSK retains ownership of these materials and markets all of the finished products. A facility management agreement requires USSK to provide management oversight of Sartids tin processing facilities in Sabac. On July 30, 2002, Sartid was placed into bankruptcy and shortly thereafter the bankruptcy administrator affirmed USSKs agreements with Sartid. At the request of the bankruptcy administrator, a Commercial and Technical Support Agreement was entered into on November 8, 2002, between USSK and the bankruptcy administrator, under which USSK has been retained to provide commercial, technical and financial support as necessary to assist the bankruptcy administrator in the operation of the Smederevo Facility. In addition, U. S. Steel continues to explore possibilities for involvement in the restructuring of Sartid. Sartids steel production has averaged 500,000 tons per year during the past two years, which is substantially below design capacity due to Sartids financial difficulties. U. S. Steel believes that with needed rehabilitation and investments, Sartids long term raw steelmaking capability could be increased to slightly more than 2 million tons per year. Sartid primarily produces sheet products and its tinning facility has an annual capability of 130,000 tons. As previously discussed, U. S. Steel is also exploring opportunities in Poland. (See discussion on page 8.) 14  The following tables set forth steel shipment data for USSK by major markets and products for 2002, 2001 and the period following the acquisition in November 2000. Steel Shipments By Market and Product (USSK production only excludes Rannila Kosice) Sheets & Semi finished Steel Plate & Tin Mill Products Tubular Products Total Major Market 2002 (Thousands of Net Tons) Steel Service Centers 528 85 613 Further Conversion: Trade Customers 942 114 1,056 Joint Ventures 20 20 Transportation (Including Automotive) 198 34 31 263 Containers 134 155 289 Construction and Construction Products 936 12 68 1,016 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 32 32 All Other 469 184 7 660 TOTAL 3,207 604 138 3,949 Major Market 2001 (Thousands of Net Tons) Steel Service Centers 398 94 492 Further Conversion: Trade Customers 944 14 958 Joint Ventures 30 30 Transportation (Including Automotive) 165 29 194 Containers 93 141 234 Construction and Construction Products 904 59 71 1,034 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 1 134 33 168 All Other 432 167 5 604 TOTAL 2,937 639 138 3,714 Major Market 2000 (from November 24, 2002) (Thousands of Net Tons) Steel Service Centers 33 20 53 Further Conversion: Trade Customers 64 6 70 Joint Ventures 2 2 Transportation (Including Automotive) 10 3 13 Containers 6 11 17 Construction and Construction Products 66 10 6 82 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 22 2 24 All Other 27 28 1 56 TOTAL 206 99 12 317 Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows Capital Expenditures" and "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to Financial Statements 9. Supplemental Cash Flow Information." 15 Employees The average number of active U. S. Steel domestic employees during 2002 was 20,351. The average number of active USSK employees during 2002 was 15,900. Currently, substantially all domestic hourly employees of our steel, coke and taconite pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA which expires in August 2004, and includes a no strike provision. As previously discussed, on February 10, 2003, U. S. Steel announced that it would immediately begin bargaining with the USWA to reach a new, progressive labor contract, covering facilities now owned by bankrupt National, as well as the USWA represented plants of U. S. Steel. Other domestic hourly employees (for example, those engaged in coal mining and transportation activities) are represented by the United Mine Workers of America, USWA and other unions. In addition, most employees of USSK are represented by the union OZ Metalurg under a collective bargaining agreement expiring February 2004, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual reports on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. All other filings are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the EDGAR system. Other Information Information on revenues and income (loss) of the reportable segments and Other Businesses and on revenues and other income and assets by geographic area are set forth in "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to Financial Statements 8. Segment Information." For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see "Five Year Operating Summary" on pages F 44 and F 45. 16 Environmental Matters U. S. Steel maintains a comprehensive environmental policy overseen by the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of the U. S. Steel Board of Directors. The Environmental Affairs organization has the responsibility to ensure that U. S. Steels operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that are in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The Executive Environmental Committee, which is comprised of officers of U. S. Steel, is charged with reviewing its overall performance with various environmental compliance programs. Also, U. S. Steel, largely through the American Iron and Steel Institute, continues its involvement in the development of various air, water, and waste regulations with federal, state and local governments concerning the implementation of cost effective pollution reduction strategies. The domestic businesses of U. S. Steel are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act ("CAA") with respect to air emissions; the Clean Water Act ("CWA") with respect to water discharges; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances. In addition, all states where U. S. Steel operates have similar laws dealing with the same matters. These laws are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable due in part to the fact that certain implementing regulations for laws such as RCRA and the CAA have not yet been promulgated or in certain instances are undergoing revision. These environmental laws and regulations, particularly the CAA, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and the cost of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies" on page 46 and "Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings" on page 21. U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet CAA obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be adversely affected. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. For further information, see "Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings" on page 21, and "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies" on page 46. Slovak standards relative to air, water and solid waste pollution are set by statute and these standards are similar to those in the United States and the EU. USSK is in material compliance with these standards. USSKs environmental expenses in 2002 included usage fees, permit fees and or penalties totaling approximately $5 million. There are no legal proceedings pending against USSK 17 involving environmental matters. USSKs capital spending commitment to the Slovak government includes expenditures sufficient to bring USSK into compliance with all EU environmental standards by 2005. The 1997 Kyoto Global Climate Change Agreement ("Kyoto Protocol") produced by the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, if ratified by the U.S. Senate, would require restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. Options that could be considered by federal regulators to force the reductions necessary to meet these restrictions could escalate energy costs and thereby increase steel production costs. Until action is taken by the U.S. Senate to ratify the Kyoto Protocol or to implement some other program to address greenhouse gas emissions, it is not possible to estimate the effect this may have on U. S. Steel. Air The CAA imposed more stringent limits on air emissions, established a federally mandated operating permit program and allowed for enhanced civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. The principal impact of the CAA on U. S. Steel is on the cokemaking and primary steelmaking operations of U. S. Steel, as described in this section. The coal mining operations and sales of USS Mining may also be affected. The CAA requires the regulation of hazardous air pollutants and development and promulgation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology ("MACT") Standards. It was determined in 1995 that the Chrome Electroplating MACT did not apply to steel mill sources; however, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") stated that MACT standards applicable to these sources would be forthcoming. To date, there has been no action taken. Potentially affected U. S. Steel facilities are the electrolytic tinning lines at Gary Works and the tin free steel line at East Chicago Tin. The EPA is also promulgating MACT standards for integrated iron and steel plants and taconite iron ore processing which are expected to be finalized in 2003. The impact of these new standards could be significant to U. S. Steel, but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated until the rules are finalized. The CAA specifically addressed the regulation and control of coke oven batteries. The National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants for coke oven batteries was finalized in October 1993, setting forth the MACT standard and, as an alternative, a Lowest Achievable Emission Rate ("LAER") standard. Effective January 1998, U. S. Steel elected to comply with the LAER standards. U. S. Steel believes it will be able to meet the current LAER standards. The LAER standards will be further revised in 2010 and additional health risk based standards are expected to be adopted in 2020. The EPA is in the process of developing the Phase II Coke MACT for pushing, quenching and battery stacks which is scheduled to be finalized in 2003. This MACT will impact U. S. Steel, but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. In September 1997, the EPA adopted revisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone and particulate matter which are significantly more stringent than prior standards. The EPA is also developing regulations to address Regional Haze. The impact of these revised standards could be significant to U. S. Steel, but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated until the final regulations are promulgated and, more importantly, the states implement their State Implementation Plans covering their standards. In 2002, all of the coal production of USS Mining was metallurgical coal, which is primarily used in coke production. While U. S. Steel believes that the new environmental requirements for coke ovens will not have an immediate effect on USS Mining, the requirements may encourage development of steelmaking processes that reduce the usage of coke. The new ozone and particulate matter standards could be significant to USS Mining, but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated until rules are proposed or finalized. 18 Water U. S. Steel maintains the necessary discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System ("NPDES") program of the CWA, and it is in compliance with such permits. On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by the EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX Corporation, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act NPDES permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees which resolves potential liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. In 1999, U. S. Steel paid civil penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs. In addition, U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future monitoring costs and U. S. Steel is obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been or will be conveyed to the trustees. During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with the EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with the NPDES requirements. As of December 31, 2002, the sediment remediation project is an approved final interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works. As of December 31, 2002, project costs have amounted to $29.1 million with another $14.2 million presently projected to complete the project, over the next 12 months. Construction began in January 2002 on a CAMU to contain the dredged material. The Toxic Substances Control Act unit within the CAMU is complete; the remaining construction was completed in February 2003. Phase 1 removal of PCB contaminated sediment was conducted in December 2002. Dredging resumed in February 2003 and will continue until dredging on the river is concluded, which is expected to occur in October 2003. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $4.9 million. Estimated remediation, monitoring and closure costs for this project have been accrued. In addition, in October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management ("IDEM") acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The public trustees completed a pre assessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have determined to perform a Natural Resource Damages Assessment. U. S. Steel was identified as a PRP along with 15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. U. S. Steel and eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The trustees notified the public of their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. In 2000, the trustees concluded their assessment of sediment injuries, which included a technical review of environmental conditions. The PRP joint defense group has proposed terms for the settlement of this claim, which have been endorsed by representatives of the trustees and the EPA to be included in a consent decree that U. S. Steel expects will resolve this claim. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs, and obtained an 8 acre parcel of land that has been transferred to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for addition to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Park owned by the National Park Service. No formal legal proceedings have been filed in this matter. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under "Remediation." 19 Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. These projects include the remediation of the Grand Calumet River (discussed above), and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For a discussion of remedial actions related to U. S. Steel, see "Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings" on page 21. Item 2. PROPERTIES U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned the vast majority of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012 with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania, which is subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004, is subject to a lease and U. S. Steel exercised an option to renew this lease through July 2, 2012, at a fair market rental. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows Capital Expenditures" and "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to Financial Statements 9. Supplemental Cash Flow Information." Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel has been and is a defendant in a large number of cases in which approximately 14,000 claimants actively allege injury resulting from exposure to asbestos. Nearly all of these cases involve multiple defendants. These claims fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime law by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who performed work at U. S. Steel facilities; and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to an electrical cable product formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. To date, all actions resolved have been either dismissed or settled for immaterial amounts. In 2002, U. S. Steel disposed of claims from approximately 1,700 claimants with aggregate total payments of approximately $700,000 and over 4,700 cases were administratively dismissed. It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters; however, based upon present knowledge, management believes that it is unlikely that the resolution of the pending 20 actions will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Among the factors that management considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the last 12 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the claimants to present any medical evidence supporting their claims, (2) that over the last several years the total number of pending claims has remained steady, (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured electrical cable and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals. This statement of belief is a forward looking statement. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in this forward looking statement. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2002, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties ("PRPs") for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. CERCLA Remediation Sites Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 21 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 5 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 12 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining 4 sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at any single site will not exceed $5 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of sharing in any final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1.At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $12.1 million for cleanup through 2002. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on the EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. 21 U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Additional study and oversight costs through 2003 are estimated at $765,000. 2.The DImperio and Ewan sites in New Jersey are two waste disposal sites where a former subsidiary allegedly disposed of used paint and solvent wastes. U. S. Steel has entered into a settlement agreement with the major PRPs at the sites which fixes U. S. Steels share of liability at approximately $1.2 million, $655,000 of which had been paid as of December 31, 2002. The balance, which is expected to be paid over the next several years, has been accrued. 3.In 1988, U. S. Steel and two other PRPs (Bethlehem Steel Corporation and William Fiore) agreed to the issuance of an administrative order by the EPA to undertake emergency removal work at the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. The cost of such removal, which has been completed, was approximately $4.2 million, of which U. S. Steel paid $3.4 million. The EPA indicated that further remediation of this site would be required. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources ("PADER") placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation, which was issued in 1997. After a feasibility study by Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection ("PADEP") and submission of a conceptual remediation plan in 2001 by U. S. Steel, U. S. Steel submitted a revised conceptual remedial action plan on May 31, 2002. U. S. Steel and PADEP signed a consent decree on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. This consent decree has been noticed for public comments. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $6.8 million. In addition, there are 13 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities The following is a discussion of other remediation activities at the major domestic U. S. Steel facilities: There are 37 additional sites related to U. S. Steel where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 6 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 5 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 7 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. Another 4 sites, including the Grand Calumet River remediation at Gary Works, the Peters Creek Lagoon remediation at Clairton Works, the closure of hazardous waste sites at Gary Works, and the potential claim for investigation, restoration and compensation of injuries to sediments in the east branch of the Grand Calumet River near Gary Works, have or are expected to have costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation in excess of $5 million. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 15 sites are not presently determinable. 22  Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by the EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act NPDES permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves potential liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. In 1999, U. S. Steel paid civil penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs. In addition, U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel is obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been or will be conveyed to the trustees. During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with the EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with the NPDES requirements. As of December 31, 2002, the sediment remediation project is an approved final interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works. As of December 31, 2002, project costs have amounted to $29.1 million with another $14.2 million presently projected to complete the project, over the next 12 months. Construction began in January 2002 on a Corrective Action Management Unit ("CAMU") to contain the dredged material. The Toxic Substances Control Act unit within the CAMU is complete; the remaining construction was completed in February 2003. Phase 1 removal of PCB contaminated sediment was conducted in December 2002. Dredging resumed in February 2003 and will continue until dredging on the river is concluded, which is expected to occur in October 2003. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $4.9 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property. The D2 disposal site and a nearby refuse area will be closed collectively. A CAMU for the West End Maintenance Area of Gary Works has been proposed that will include wastes from the D5 and T2 disposal sites. Total costs to close D2, D5, T2 and the refuse area are estimated to be $18.8 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management ("IDEM") acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The public trustees completed a preassessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have determined to perform a Natural Resources Damages Assessment. U. S. Steel was identified as a PRP along with 15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. U. S. Steel and eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The trustees notified the public of their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. In 2000, the trustees concluded their assessment of sediment injuries, which included a technical review of environmental conditions. The PRP joint defense group has proposed terms for the settlement of this claim which have been endorsed by representatives of the trustees and the EPA to be included in a consent decree that U. S. Steel expects will resolve this claim. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs, and obtained an 8 acre parcel of land that has been transferred to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for addition to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Park owned by the National Park Service. No formal legal proceedings have been filed in this matter. On October 23, 1998, a final Administrative Order on Consent was issued by the EPA addressing Corrective Action for Solid Waste Management Units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") Facility Investigation ("RFI") and a Corrective Measure Study ("CMS") at Gary Works. The Current Conditions Report, U. S. Steels first deliverable, was submitted to the EPA in January 1997 and was approved by the EPA 23 in 1998. Phase I RFI work plans have been approved for the Coke Plant, the Process Sewers, and Background Soils at the site, along with the approval of one self implementing interim stabilization measure. Another eight Phase I RFI work plans have been submitted for EPA approval, thereby completing the Phase I requirement, along with two Phase II RFI work plans and one further self implementing interim stabilization measure. The costs of these studies are estimated to be $5.8 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On October 21, 1994, and again on December 30, 1994, IDEM issued notices of violation ("NOVs") relating to Gary Works alleging various violations of air pollution requirements. In early 1996, U. S. Steel paid a $6 million penalty and agreed to install additional pollution control equipment and to implement environmental protection programs over a period of several years. A substantial portion of these programs has been implemented, with expenditures through 2002 of approximately $103 million. The cost to complete these programs is presently indeterminable. On March 8, 1999, U. S. Steel entered into an agreed order with IDEM to resolve outstanding air issues. U. S. Steel paid a penalty of $207,400 and installed equipment at the No. 8 Blast Furnace and the No. 1 BOP to reduce air emissions. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued an NOV alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four Coke Batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to present. Because IDEM has not yet determined the merits of the defenses raised by U. S. Steel, the cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated. Clairton On February 12, 1987, U. S. Steel and the PADER entered into a Consent Order to resolve an incident in January 1985 involving the alleged unauthorized discharge of benzene and other organic pollutants from Clairton Works in Clairton, Pa. That Consent Order required U. S. Steel to pay a penalty of $50,000 and a monthly payment of $2,500 for five years. In 1990, U. S. Steel and the PADER reached agreement to amend the Consent Order. Under the amended Order, U. S. Steel agreed to remediate the Peters Creek Lagoon, a former coke plant waste disposal site; to pay a penalty of $300,000; and to pay a monthly penalty of up to $1,500 each month until the former disposal site is closed. Remediation costs have amounted to $10.2 million with another $1.4 million presently projected to complete the project. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with the EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to the RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. The RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant. Fairfield Works In December 1995, U. S. Steel reached an agreement in principle with the EPA and the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") with respect to alleged RCRA violations at Fairfield Works. A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, the EPA and the DOJ and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel will pay a civil penalty of $1 million, implement two Supplemental Environmental Projects ("SEPs") costing a total of $1.75 million and implement a RCRA corrective 24 action at the facility. One SEP was completed during 1998 at a cost of $250,000. The second SEP is under way. As of February 22, 2000, the Alabama Department of Environmental Management assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of the EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved for the site on September 16, 2002. Field sampling for the work plan commenced immediately after approval and will continue through the end of 2003. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $657,000. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable.  PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in "Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)" on page F 41. As of January 31, 2003, there were 49,784 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the Separation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity" on page 41. 25 Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA(a) Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 Statement of Operations Data: Revenues and other income(b)(c) $ 7,054 $ 6,375 $ 6,132 $ 5,470 $ 6,477 Income (loss) from operations(d) 131 (405 ) 104 150 579 Income (loss) before extraordinary losses(d) 61 (218 ) (21 ) 51 364 Net income (loss)(d) $ 61 $ (218 ) $ (21 ) $ 44 $ 364 Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary losses(e) basic and diluted $ .62 $ (2.45 ) $ (.24 ) $ .57 $ 4.08 Net income (loss)(e) basic and diluted .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) .49 4.08 Dividends paid(f) .20 .55 1.00 1.00 1.00 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets 7,977 8,337 8,711 7,525 6,749 Capitalization: Notes payable $ $ $ 70 $ $ 13 Long term debt including amount due within one year(g) 1,434 1,466 2,375 915 476 Preferred stock of subsidiary(h) 66 66 66 Trust Preferred Securities(h) 183 183 182 Stockholders equity 2,027 2,506 1,919 2,056 2,093 Total capitalization $ 3,461 $ 3,972 $ 4,613 $ 3,220 $ 2,830 (a)See Notes 1 and 2 to the Financial Statements for discussion of the Basis of Presentation and the December 31, 2001 Separation from Marathon. (b)Consists of revenues, dividend and investee income (loss), net gains on disposal of assets, gain on investee stock offering and other income (loss). (c)For discussion of changes between the years 2002, 2001 and 2000, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in revenues and other income from 1999 to 2000 was primarily due to the consolidation of Lorain Tubular effective January 1, 2000, higher average realized steel prices and lower losses from equity investees. The decrease in revenues and other income from 1998 to 1999 was primarily due to decreases in average realized steel prices, lower shipment volumes and lower income from equity investees. (d)For discussion of changes between the years 2002, 2001 and 2000, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 1999 to 2000 was primarily due to the impairment of certain coal assets, the absence of a favorable pension settlement recorded in 1999, lower throughput, lower results from raw materials operations and lower sheet shipments, partially offset by a larger pension credit. The decrease from 1998 to 1999 was primarily due to lower average realized steel prices, lower income from raw materials operations, an unfavorable product mix, higher pension costs and unfavorable results from equity investees. (e)See Note 18 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (f)For years 1998 to 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USX U. S. Steel Group common stock. (g)The decrease in long term debt from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to transactions related to the Separation, including the $900 million value transfer. For further discussion, see Note 2 to the Financial Statements. The increase in long term debt from 1999 to 2000 was primarily due to cash used in operating activities of $627 million and the $325 million of debt included in the acquisition of USSK. For discussion of cash used in operating activities in 2000, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. (h)At the Separation, these securities were either redeemed for cash by Marathon, or retained by Marathon and redeemed or repaid in January 2002. 26 Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS U. S. Steel has five reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products ("Flat rolled"), Tubular Products ("Tubular"), U. S. Steel Kosice ("USSK"), Straightline Source ("Straightline") and USS Real Estate ("Real Estate"). Prior to December 31, 2001, the businesses of U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation ("Marathon"). On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USXU. S. Steel Group common stock ("Steel Stock") in exchange for all outstanding shares of Steel Stock on a one for one basis ("the Separation"). (For additional information on the Separation, see Note 2 to the Financial Statements.) Effective with the first quarter of 2002, following the Separation, U. S. Steel established a new internal financial reporting structure, which resulted in a change in reportable segments from Domestic Steel and USSK to Flat rolled, Tubular and USSK. In addition, U. S. Steel revised the presentation of several items of income and expense within income (loss) from reportable segments. Net pension credits, costs related to former businesses and administrative expenses previously not reported at the segment level are now directly charged or allocated to the reportable segments and other businesses. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2002, the Straightline and Real Estate reportable segments, which were previously reflected in Other Businesses, were added. The presentation of Straightline and Real Estate as separate segments resulted from the application of quantitative threshold tests under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 131 rather than any fundamental change in the management or structure of the businesses. The composition of the Flat rolled, Tubular and USSK segments remains unchanged from prior periods. Comparative results for 2001 and 2000 have been conformed to the current year presentation. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, plate and tin mill products. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the transportation (including automotive), appliance, service center, conversion, container, and construction markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities and an equity investee involved in the production of tubular goods. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The USSK segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels integrated steel mill located in the Slovak Republic; a production facility in Germany; operations under facility management and support agreements in Serbia; and equity investees, primarily located in Central Europe. These operations produce and sell sheet, plate, tin, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products, as well as coke. USSK primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, appliance, transportation, service center, container, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The Straightline segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels technology enabled distribution business that serves steel customers primarily in the eastern and central United States. Straightline competes in the steel service center marketplace using a nontraditional business process to sell, process and deliver flat rolled steel products in small to medium sized order quantities primarily to job shops, contract manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers across an array of industries. 27 The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic mineral interests that are not assigned to other operating units; timber properties; and residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed or developed for sale or lease. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of coal, coke and iron bearing taconite pellets; transportation services; and engineering and consulting services. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects" or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see "Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements" on page 73. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations are based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment, valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits ("OPEB") The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, and escalation of retiree health care costs. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below: U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors at year end 2002, U. S. Steel has decreased the expected annual return on pension plan assets from 8.8% in 2002 to 8.2% in 2003. This decrease in the expected return will negatively affect the return on asset component of net periodic pension costs by approximately $55 million in 2003 as compared to 2002. The investment performance of pension plan assets over the last three years will also unfavorably impact net periodic pension cost during 2003 and later years 28 primarily through the use of a lower asset base in calculating the expected return on plan assets. Since the expected return on assets component of net periodic benefit cost is based upon a market related value that recognizes changes in fair value over three years, net periodic pension cost will also be progressively higher in 2004 and 2005. Net periodic pension cost is expected to total $65 million in 2003 as compared to a $103 million credit (before settlement charges) in 2002. A 1/2 percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets for 2003 would have decreased or increased the net periodic pension cost by $40 million. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steels two main pension plans had a fair market value of $7.2 billion which was 63 percent invested in equity securities, 35 percent in debt securities and 2 percent in all other investments. U. S. Steel determines the discount rate applied to pension and OPEB obligations at each year end based on a number of external barometers used to measure the status of high quality bond rates consistent with the expected payout period of the obligations. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 7.0% to 6.25%. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $31 million for pensions and $10 million for OPEB in 2003 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts, which in recent years had not been a significant component of benefit costs. Total OPEB costs in 2003 are expected to be approximately $203 million, excluding multiemployer plans. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased the 2003 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $21 million and $9 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased the 2003 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $5 million and $10 million, respectively. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans and through consultation with health care experts. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 10% for 2003. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75% in 2010 and remain at that level thereafter. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the escalation trend would have increased net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $25 million in 2003. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the escalation trend would have decreased net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $21 million in 2003. Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. Based on preliminary funding valuations, U. S. Steels main pension plans are not expected to require cash funding for the 2003 plan year. However, the lower returns on plan assets experienced in recent years may have a negative impact on funding for U. S. Steels pension plan for union employees in 2004 and later. The timing and amount of any required future funding cannot be determined at this time. For further cash flow discussion, see the Liquidity section. Asset Impairments U. S. Steel evaluates the impairment of its property, plant and equipment on an individual asset basis or by logical groupings of assets. Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in 29 the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. The amount of deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2002, was $1,622 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $30 million. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of these deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. As of December 31, 2002, the amount of undistributed earnings was approximately $260 million. If circumstances change and it is determined that earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future, a charge of up to $70 million could be required. Any charge taken is contingent upon the amount of undistributed earnings that U. S. Steel would plan to remit. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered as potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority) an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2002, total accruals for environmental remediation were $135 million. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Income The principal drivers of U. S. Steels financial results are price, volume, product mix and costs. To the extent that these factors are affected by industry conditions and the overall economic climate, revenues and income will reflect such conditions. Revenues and other income for each of the last three years are summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Revenues by product: Sheet and semi finished steel products $ 4,048 $ 3,163 $ 3,288 Plate and tin mill products 1,057 1,273 977 Tubular products 554 755 754 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore) 502 485 626 Other(a) 788 610 445 Income (loss) from investees 33 64 (8 ) Net gains on disposal of assets 29 22 46 Other income 43 3 4 Total revenues and other income $ 7,054 $ 6,375 $ 6,132 (a)Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; steel mill products distribution; the management of mineral resources; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. 30  Total revenues and other income in 2002 increased by $679 million from 2001 primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic, which was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. These were partially offset by reduced domestic tubular and plate shipment volumes. Total revenues and other income increased by $243 million in 2001 from 2000 primarily due to the inclusion of USSK revenues for the full year, the inclusion of Transtar revenues following the reorganization and higher income from investees relating to the gain on the Transtar reorganization, partially offset by lower domestic sheet, tubular and plate shipment volumes, lower average realized prices for domestic sheet products, and the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic. Income (loss) from operations for the last three years was: (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Flat rolled $ (31 ) $ (536 ) $ 31 Tubular 4 88 83 USSK 110 123 2 Straightline (41 ) (17 ) Real Estate 57 69 72 Total income (loss) from reportable segments 99 (273 ) 188 Other Businesses 38 (17 ) 67 Income (Loss) from operations before special items 137 (290 ) 255 Special Items: Pension settlement losses (100 ) Asset impairments receivables (14 ) (146 ) (8 ) Asset impairments intangible asset (20 ) Costs related to Separation (25 ) Costs related to Fairless shutdown (1 ) (38 ) Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire(a) 39 46 Federal excise tax refund 38 Gain on VSZ share sale 20 Reversal of litigation accrual 9 Gain on Transtar reorganization 68 Environmental and legal contingencies (36 ) Asset impairments coal (71 ) Impairment and other costs related to investments in equity investees (36 ) Total income (loss) from operations $ 128 $ (405 ) $ 104 (a)In excess of facility repair costs. Segment results for Flat rolled The segment loss for Flat rolled of $31 million in 2002 reflected an improvement of $505 million from 2001. The substantially decreased loss was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies, higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products, lower energy costs and cost saving initiatives. Flat rolled recorded a segment loss of $536 million in 2001, versus income of $31 million in 2000, a decrease of $567 million. The decrease was primarily due to lower sheet prices and reduced shipment volumes for sheet products, which resulted in less efficient operating rates and higher unit costs, lower results from tin operations during the phase out of operations at the Fairless Plant, higher than 31 anticipated start up and operating expenses associated with the March acquisition of East Chicago Tin, and business interruption effects at USS POSCO following the cold mill fire in May. Segment results for Tubular Tubular segment income for 2002 was $4 million, compared to $88 million in 2001. The decline was primarily due to lower shipment volumes and lower average realized prices for tubular products. Segment income for Tubular in 2001 reflected an improvement of $5 million from 2000 primarily due to higher tubular prices during the first half of 2001. Segment results for USSK USSK segment income for 2002 was $110 million, a decrease of $13 million compared to 2001. The decrease was primarily due to the unfavorable effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on costs, higher freight costs, losses on conversion operations at Sartid a.d. ("Sartid") in Serbia and business development expenses associated with Sartid and other expansion opportunities in Europe, partially offset by higher average realized prices, which were in part due to favorable exchange rate effects. The net currency exchange effect on total year income from operations was not material. USSK segment income for the full year 2001 was $123 million, compared to $2 million in 2000 for the period following U. S. Steels acquisition of USSK on November 24, 2000. The increase was primarily due to U. S. Steels full year of ownership, changes in commercial strategy, strong customer focused marketing and a favorable cost structure. Segment results for Straightline Straightline recorded a segment loss of $41 million in 2002, its first full year of operations, compared with a loss of $17 million in 2001 for the period following the start up of operations on October 30, 2001. These results reflect the early stage costs associated with building a new business, achieving market penetration, and creating the infrastructure for anticipated future growth. Segment results for Real Estate Real Estate segment income for 2002 was $57 million, compared with $69 million in 2001. The decrease primarily reflected lower mineral interest royalties. Real Estate segment income for 2001 declined $3 million from 2000 primarily due to a decline in land sales, partially offset by increases in mineral interest royalties. Results for Other Businesses Income for Other Businesses for 2002 was $38 million, a significant improvement from 2001s loss of $17 million. The increase primarily reflected higher income from taconite pellet and coal operations, partially offset by lower results from coke operations. The loss for Other Businesses for 2001 reflected a decline of $84 million from income of $67 million in 2000 mainly as a result of lower income from taconite pellet and coke operations, and a decline in income related to Transtar. These decreases were partially offset by improved results from coal operations due to improved operating and geological conditions and reduced depreciation following an impairment of coal assets in 2000. Net periodic pension credit Net periodic pension credits, which are primarily noncash and are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $3 million in 2002, $120 million in 2001 and $273 million in 2000. The decrease of $117 million from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher settlement charges, which totaled $100 million in 2002, compared with $4 million in 2001. The credit in 2002 was also negatively affected by a lower expected return on plan assets as a result of lower market related values of plan assets in 32 2002. The credit in 2001 also included $30 million of termination expense due principally to a non union voluntary early retirement program offered in conjunction with the Separation and a shutdown of a majority of the Fairless Plant. The decrease of $153 million in the net periodic pension credit from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to the $69 million effect of the transition asset being fully amortized in 2000, an unfavorable change in the amortization of actuarial (gains)/losses and $30 million of termination expense. For additional information on pensions, see Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $148 million in 2002 as compared to 2001. The increase in 2002 was primarily due to the decrease in the net periodic pension credit as previously discussed, the impairment of remaining retiree medical cost reimbursements receivable from Republic, increased legal and consulting expenses primarily due to the Section 201 trade cases and potential industry consolidation, and the ongoing expansion of Straightline. Also contributing to the increase in 2002 were higher retiree medical costs primarily due to decreases in the discount rate, and higher escalation rates for medical expenses. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of $286 million in 2001 as compared to 2000 was due to several factors, including the decrease in the net periodic pension credit previously discussed. Other contributing factors were the increase in costs in 2001 as a result of the full year inclusion of USSK costs, the inclusion of Transtar costs following the reorganization, Separation costs and the impairment of retiree medical cost reimbursements owed by Republic. Items not allocated to segments: Pension settlement losses were related to retirements of personnel covered under the nonunion qualified pension plan, the non tax qualified pension plan and the non tax qualified executive management supplemental pension program. The settlements occurred primarily as a result of a voluntary early retirement program which was completed in June 2002. Asset impairments receivables were for charges related to reserves established against receivables exposure from financially distressed steel companies, primarily Republic. Asset impairments intangible asset was for the impairment of an intangible asset in 2001 related to the five year agreement for LTV to supply U. S. Steel with pickled hot bands entered into in conjunction with the acquisition of LTVs tin mill products business. This impairment followed the discontinuation of LTV operations at East Chicago. Costs related to Separation were for U. S. Steels share of professional fees and expenses and certain other costs directly attributable to the Separation in 2001. Costs related to Fairless shutdown resulted from the permanent shutdown of the pickling, cold rolling and tin mill facilities at the Fairless Plant in 2001. Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire represent U. S. Steels share of insurance recoveries in excess of facility repair costs for the cold rolling mill fire at USS POSCO, which occurred in May 2001. The final payment was received in December 2002. Federal excise tax refund represents the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales during the period 1993 through 1999. During 2002, U. S. Steel received cash and recognized pre tax income of $38 million, which is included in other income on the statement of operations. Of the $38 million received, $11 million represented interest. The refunds resulted from a 1998 federal district court decision that found such taxes to be unconstitutional. Gain on VSZ share sale represents the gain recognized in October 2002 when U. S. Steel granted an option to purchase its shares of VSZ and subsequently sold these shares. 33 Reversal of litigation accrual represents the reversal in the first quarter of 2002 of a prior litigation accrual as a result of a final court ruling in U. S. Steels favor. Gain on Transtar reorganization represents U. S. Steels share of the gain in 2001. Because this was a transaction with a noncontrolling shareholder, Transtar recognized a gain by comparing the carrying value of the businesses sold to their fair value. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements. Environmental and legal contingencies relate to certain environmental and legal accruals. Asset impairments coal was for asset impairments at coal mines in Alabama and West Virginia in 2000 following a reassessment of long term prospects after adverse geological conditions were encountered. Impairment and other costs related to investments in equity investees represents charges to establish reserves against notes from Republic and to record U. S. Steels share of Republic special charges which resulted from the completion of a financial restructuring of Republic. Net interest and other financial costs for each of the last three years are summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Net interest and other financial costs $ 115 $ 141 $ 105 Plus: Favorable adjustment to interest related to prior years taxes 67 Net interest and other financial costs adjusted to exclude above item $ 115 $ 208 $ 105 Adjusted net interest and other financial costs decreased $93 million in 2002 as compared with 2001, primarily due to lower average debt levels following the December 31, 2001 value transfer of $900 million from Marathon. The change from 2001 to 2002 also reflects favorable foreign currency effects. These effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency, and resulted in a net gain of $16 million in 2002 compared to a net loss of $1 million in 2001. Adjusted net interest and other financial costs increased by $103 million in 2001 as compared with 2000. This increase was largely due to higher average debt levels, which resulted from negative cash flow and the elective funding for employee benefits and the acquisition of USSK, both of which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2000. The income tax benefit in 2002 was $48 million, compared with a benefit of $328 million in 2001, and a provision of $20 million in 2000. The tax benefit in 2001 included a $33 million deferred tax benefit associated with the Transtar reorganization. The decrease in the tax benefit from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to reduced pre tax losses from domestic operations. The change to a tax benefit in 2001 as compared to a tax provision in 2000 was primarily the result of losses from domestic operations reported in 2001. The tax benefits in 2002 and 2001 reflected pre tax losses from domestic operations and pre tax income from foreign operations for which virtually no income tax provision was recorded. The Slovak Income Tax Act provides an income tax credit which is available to USSK if certain conditions are met. In order to claim the tax credit in any year, 60% of USSKs sales must be export sales and USSK must reinvest the tax credits claimed in qualifying capital expenditures during the five years following the year in which the tax credit is claimed. The provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 100% of USSKs tax liability for years 2000 through 2004 and 50% for the years 2005 through 2009. Management believes that USSK fulfilled all of the necessary conditions for claiming the tax credit for 2000 through 2002. As a result of claiming these tax credits and certain tax planning strategies to reinvest earnings in foreign operations, virtually no income tax provision is recorded for USSK income. If circumstances change and it is determined that 34 earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future, a charge would be required to record the deferred tax liability for the amounts planned to be remitted. In October 2002, a tax credit limit was negotiated by the Slovak government as part of an agreement required for the Slovak Republics entry into the European Union ("EU"). Effective upon the Slovak Republics entry into the EU, the agreement will limit to $500 million the total tax credit to be granted to USSK during the period 2000 through 2009. The impact of the tax credit limit is expected to be minimal since Slovak tax laws have been modified and tax rates have been reduced since the acquisition of USSK. The agreement also places limits upon total production and export sales to the EU, allowing for modest growth during the period covered by the investment incentive. Management believes that the agreement will not have a significant impact on future USSK production and results of operations. The issue of certain subsidies or incentives to the steel industry is the subject of ongoing discussions at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD"). It is possible that these discussions could result in the adoption of an OECD agreement which could negatively impact USSKs tax credit. Net income in 2002 was $61 million, compared with a net loss of $218 million in 2001 and a net loss of $21 million in 2000. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Operations Flat rolled shipments were 9.9 million tons in 2002, 8.8 million tons in 2001 and 9.6 million tons in 2000. Tubular shipments were 0.8 million tons in 2002, 1.0 million tons in 2001 and 1.1 million tons in 2000. Domestic shipments in 2001 were affected by a weak domestic economy, which reduced demand for sheet, plate and tubular products. High import levels impacted all three years. Exports accounted for approximately 5% of U. S. Steels domestic shipments in 2002, 2001 and 2000. USSK shipments were 3.9 million net tons in 2002, 3.7 million net tons in 2001 and 0.3 million net tons in 2000 in the short period following the acquisition. Domestic raw steel production was 11.5 million tons in 2002, compared with 10.1 million tons in 2001 and 11.4 million tons in 2000. Domestic raw steel production averaged 90% of capability in 2002, compared with 79% of capability in 2001 and 89% of capability in 2000. In 2002, domestic raw steel production was negatively affected by poor market conditions during the first quarter, as well as the acceleration into the fourth quarter of some blast furnace repair work that was originally scheduled to occur in 2003. In 2001, domestic raw steel production was negatively impacted by poor economic conditions and the high level of imports. In 2000, domestic raw steel production was negatively impacted by a planned reline at the Gary Works No. 4 blast furnace in July 2000. Because of market conditions, U. S. Steel limited its domestic production by keeping the Gary Works No. 4 blast furnace out of service until February 2001. U. S. Steels stated annual domestic raw steel production capability was 12.8 million tons in 2002, 2001 and 2000. USSK raw steel production was 4.4 million tons in 2002 and 4.1 million tons in 2001, or 88% and 81%, respectively, of USSKs stated annual raw steel production capability of 5.0 million net tons. The domestic steel industry is restructuring after many years of oversupply and low prices attributable largely to excess imports, which resulted in significant capacity closures starting in late 2000 and led to the introduction of Section 201 import tariffs in March 2002. The combination of capacity closures, trade restrictions and the imposition of tariffs led to a recovery of steel prices from 20 year lows in late 2001 and early 2002. U. S. Steel benefited in 2002 from reduced domestic supply resulting from the temporary or permanent closure of steelmaking capacity, as well as the Section 201 remedies announced by President Bush on March 5, 2002. Despite the trade remedies, steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 27% of the domestic steel market in 2002, compared to 24% and 27%, for 2001 and 2000, respectively. In 2002, imports of steel pipe and cold rolled sheets decreased 16% and 38%, respectively, compared to 2001; 35 and imports of hot rolled sheets and galvanized sheets increased 61% and 39%, respectively, compared to 2001. Remedies under Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 became effective for imports entering the U.S. on and after March 20, 2002, and are intended to provide protection against imports from certain countries, but there are products and countries not covered and imports of these exempt products or of products from these countries may still have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels revenues and income. Through August 2002, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the Office of the United States Trade Representative had granted exclusions from the Section 201 remedies for many products, and another round of processing requests for exclusion is in process. The exclusions impact a number of products produced by U. S. Steel and have weakened the protection initially provided by this relief. Additionally, as initially imposed, the remedies decrease each year they are in effect. For flat rolled products, the tariff decreases from 30% in the first year to 24% in the second year and 16% in the third year, and the quota for slab imports that can enter the United States without imposition of the Section 201 tariff increases from 5.4 million net tons in the first year to 5.9 million net tons in the second year and 6.4 million net tons in the third year, although the quantity of slabs that can actually enter the country free of tariffs is substantially larger than that amount due to exemptions of various slab products and exemptions of certain countries that ship slabs. Various countries have challenged President Bushs action with the World Trade Organization ("WTO") and have taken other actions responding to the Section 201 remedies. The WTO is expected to announce its initial decision on the challenges filed against the Section 201 action by April 2003. In addition, as provided by President Bush when he announced the Section 201 action in March 2002, the U.S. International Trade Commission will conduct a mid term review in the third quarter of 2003 and recommend to the President whether the remedies should remain in effect. At the same time, the Bush Administration has continued discussions at the OECD aimed at the reduction of inefficient steel production capacity and the elimination and limitation of certain subsidies to the steel industry throughout the world. On March 31, 2002, the Canadian International Trade Tribunal ("CITT") initiated a safeguard inquiry to determine whether imports of certain steel goods from countries, including the U.S., had injured the Canadian steel industry. On July 5, 2002, the CITT announced its determination that the Canadian steel industry had been injured by reason of imports of certain products including the following which are made by U. S. Steel: cut to length plate, cold rolled steel sheet and standard pipe up to 16" o.d. On August 20, 2002, the CITT announced that it was recommending as a remedy a three year quota, with tariffs imposed on tonnages exceeding the quota. This resulted in quota levels for the U.S. which are lower than 2001 shipments. For shipments exceeding the quota levels, tariffs would be imposed ranging from 15 25% in the first year, 11 18% in the second year and 7 12% in the third year. The CITTs remedy recommendations were forwarded to the Ministry of Finance, but a final decision regarding a remedy has not yet been made. On December 20, 2001, the European Commission commenced an anti dumping investigation concerning hot rolled coils imported into the EU from the Slovak Republic and five other countries. On January 20, 2003, the Commission issued a final disclosure advising of its determinations relative to the dumping and injury margins applicable to those imports. The Commissions findings set the dumping margin applicable to those imports at 25.8% and the injury margin at 18.6%. USSK is currently in discussions with the Commission regarding the possibility of entering into a price undertaking agreement which would set minimum prices for future shipments of hot rolled coils into the EU. If no price undertaking agreement is reached, at the conclusion of these proceedings (which must occur by March 20, 2003), duties equal to the injury margin of 18.6% will be imposed upon hot rolled coils shipped by USSK into the EU. All anti dumping measures, including any price undertaking agreement, will be terminated at such time that Slovakia becomes a member of the EU, which is currently anticipated to occur in May 2004. Definitive measures were recently announced in a separate safeguard trade action commenced by the European Commission. In that proceeding, which is similar to the U.S. Section 201 proceedings, 36 quota/tariff measures were announced relative to the import of certain steel products into the EU. USSK is impacted by the quota/tariff measures on four products: non alloy hot rolled coils, hot rolled strip, hot rolled sheet and cold rolled flat products. Shipment quotas were set for all four products. The shipment quotas applicable to the first year of the measure were set at 10% above the average shipments during the period 1999 2001. An additional 5% will be added to the shipment quotas applicable to the remainder of the safeguard measure period. The shipment quotas on all products, other than non alloy hot rolled coils, are country specific. The non alloy hot rolled coil quota is a global quota. If the shipment quotas are exceeded, tariffs will be imposed. The tariffs which would apply to shipments into the EU through March 28, 2003, are 17.5% for non alloy hot rolled coils and 26% for the other three products. For the period March 29, 2003, through March 28, 2004, these tariffs will be reduced to 15.7% and 23.4%, respectively. On March 29, 2004, these tariffs will again be reduced to 14.1% and 21.0%, respectively. The safeguard measures are scheduled to expire on March 28, 2005. These measures will be terminated at such time that Slovakia becomes a member of the EU. Safeguard proceedings similar to those pursued by the European Commission have recently been commenced by Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. Provisional quota/tariff measures have been imposed in Poland and Hungary. To date, the Czech Republic has neither imposed provisional safeguard measures nor announced definitive measures. The impact on USSK of these trade actions in the EU and Central Europe cannot be predicted at this time. However, in light of market opportunities elsewhere, recent developments in the EU hot rolled coil anti dumping case and USSKs experience operating under the safeguard measures in place in the EU, Poland and Hungary, it appears unlikely that these matters will have a material adverse effect on USSKs operating profit in 2003. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition SFAS No. 87 "Employers Accounting for Pensions" provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO"), the sponsor must establish a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2002, the fair value of plan assets for the pension plan for union employees ("union plan") was $4.5 billion. Based on asset values as of December 31, 2002, the ABO for this plan exceeded the fair value of plan assets by $543 million. Consequently, required minimum liability adjustments were recorded, resulting in the recognition of an intangible asset of $414 million and a charge to equity, net of related tax effects, of $748 million at December 31, 2002. Current assets at year end 2002 increased $367 million from year end 2001 primarily due to increased inventory balances related to higher operating rates and the continuing expansion of Straightline, higher trade receivables resulting from increased sales volumes in late 2002 as compared to the latter part of 2001, and an increase in cash and cash equivalents. These were partially offset by a decline in related party receivables mainly as a result of lower shipments and changes in the shipment mix to USS POSCO. Net property, plant and equipment at year end 2002 decreased $106 million from year end 2001 primarily due to capital spending that was $92 million lower than depreciation, depletion and amortization. The pension asset at year end 2002 decreased $1,091 million from year end 2001 primarily reflecting the elimination of the prepaid pension asset related to the union plan. 37 The intangible pension asset of $414 million at December 31, 2002, resulted from the minimum liability adjustments that were recorded for the union plan. Other noncurrent assets of $144 million at year end 2002 increased $63 million from year end 2001 mainly as a result of an increase in restricted cash deposits primarily used to collateralize letters of credit to provide financial assurance. Current liabilities at year end 2002 increased $114 million from year end 2001 primarily due to an increase in accounts payable as a result of higher operating levels in late 2002 as compared to the same period in 2001, and higher accrued taxes, partially offset by lower accounts payable to related parties primarily due to payment of a $54 million cash settlement to Marathon in accordance with the terms of the Separation. Long term debt at December 31, 2002, was $1,408 million, $26 million lower than year end 2001. The decrease in debt was primarily due to a repayment on the USSK loan in April 2002. Deferred income taxes at December 31, 2002, reflected a decrease of $509 million from December 31, 2001. The change primarily resulted from the establishment of federal and state deferred tax assets related to the adjustment to the minimum liability for the union plan and the related intangible asset. Employee benefits at December 31, 2002, increased $593 million from year end 2001 primarily as a result of the $543 million minimum liability recorded for the union plan. Additional paid in capital increased by $214 million from December 31, 2001, due to an equity offering of 10,925,000 common shares that was completed in May 2002, stock sales to the United States Steel Corporation Savings Fund Plan for Salaried Employees and sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Accumulated other comprehensive loss of $803 million at December 31, 2002, increased by $754 million from year end 2001, primarily reflecting the $748 million charge to equity resulting from the minimum liability adjustment for the union plan. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities was $279 million in 2002, a decrease of $390 million from 2001. Absent the favorable effects of the $819 million intergroup tax settlements from Marathon in 2001 as described below, net cash provided from operating activities in 2002 reflected an improvement of $429 million from 2001. This improvement primarily resulted from higher net income, partially offset by increased working capital requirements primarily as a result of higher operating levels. Net cash provided from operating activities was $669 million in 2001, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $627 million in 2000. The significant improvement was primarily due to the receipt of favorable intergroup tax settlements from Marathon totaling $819 million in the 2001 period compared to a favorable intergroup settlement of $91 million in the 2000 period and the absence of $530 million of elective contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association ("VEBA") trust and to a non union retiree life insurance trust. The $819 million tax settlement is reflected in net cash provided by operating activities primarily as favorable working capital changes of $364 million related to the settlement of the income tax receivable established in 2000 arising from tax attributes primarily generated in the year 2000; increases in net income of $426 million for tax benefits generated by U. S. Steel in 2001; and net increases in all other items net of $15 million for state tax benefits generated in 2000. The last two items were included in the $441 million settlement with Marathon, which occurred in 2001 as a result of the Separation. Absent these intergroup tax settlements in 2001 and 2000 and the $530 million of elective contributions in 2000 to a VEBA trust and to a non union retiree life insurance trust, net cash used in operating activities decreased by $38 million. Cash payments of employee benefit liabilities were lower in 2001 because $152 million was paid from assets held in trust, compared to $41 million in 2000. This change was primarily the 38 result of approximately $112 million of funds from the VEBA trust being used to pay retiree medical and life insurance benefits for United Steelworkers of America ("USWA") retirees in 2001. In addition, working capital improved. These improvements were partially offset by decreased net income. Net cash used in operating activities in 2000 was $627 million and reflected the $500 million elective contribution to a VEBA trust, a $30 million elective contribution to a non union retiree life insurance trust and an income tax receivable from Marathon of $364 million. These unfavorable effects were partially offset by a $91 million income tax settlement with Marathon received in 2000 primarily for the year 1999 in accordance with the group tax allocation policy. The $500 million VEBA trust contribution has provided U. S. Steel with the flexibility to pay ongoing costs of providing USWA retiree health care and life insurance benefits from the VEBA trust instead of from corporate cash flow. At December 31, 2002, the Company had $195 million of the $500 million contribution remaining to offset future benefit payments and required VEBA contributions. U. S. Steel expects to use approximately $180 million of the remaining amount in 2003. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $258 million, including $97 million for USSK. Major projects in 2002 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Tubular and various projects at USSK, including continued work on the new tinning and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, completion of the scrap management and hot strip mill reheat furnace upgrade projects, commencement of work on a new dynamo line and installation of a vacuum degassing facility. Capital expenditures of $287 million in 2001 included exercising a buyout option of a lease for half of the Gary Works No. 2 Slab Caster; repairs to the No. 3 blast furnace at the Mon Valley Works; work on the No. 2 stove at the No. 6 blast furnace at Gary Works; the completion of the replacement coke battery thruwalls at Gary Works; the completion of an upgrade to the Mon Valley Works cold reduction mill; systems development projects; and projects at USSK, including the tin mill expansion and the vacuum degasser project. Capital expenditures of $244 million in 2000 included exercising an early buyout option of a lease for half of the Gary Works No. 2 Slab Caster; the continued replacement of coke battery thruwalls at Gary Works; installation of the remaining two coilers at the Gary Works hot strip mill; a blast furnace stove replacement at Gary Works; and the continuation of an upgrade to the Mon Valley Works cold reduction mill. U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2002, totaled $24 million compared with $28 million at December 31, 2001. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitments under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, were $541 million and $634 million, respectively. Capital expenditures for 2003 are expected to be approximately $350 million, including approximately $100 million for USSK. Major expenditures include completion of the installation of a new quench and temper line at Lorain Tubular; replacing the top stack on the Gary No. 8 blast furnace; and projects at USSK, including completion of the new tin and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, and continued work on the new dynamo line, which is scheduled to start up in 2004. The preceding statement concerning expected 2003 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of 39 completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. The acquisition of U. S. Steel Kosice consisted of cash payments of $38 million in 2002, $14 million in 2001 and net cash payments of $10 million in 2000, which reflected $69 million of cash payments less $59 million of cash acquired in the transaction. An additional payment of $38 million is to be made to VSZ in 2003 related to the purchase. The first quarter 2001 acquisition of East Chicago Tin and reorganization of Transtar were noncash transactions. See also Note 5 to the Financial Statements. Disposal of assets in 2002 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of U. S. Steels investment in stock of VSZ which was previously discussed, and the sale/leaseback of certain assets. Restricted cash deposits of $72 million in 2002 were mainly used to collateralize letters of credit to meet financial assurance requirements. Investees return of capital in 2001 of $13 million reflected a return of capital on the investment in stock of VSZ. Net change in attributed portion of Marathon consolidated debt and other financial obligations was a decrease of $74 million in 2001 compared to an increase of $1,208 million in 2000. The decrease in 2001 primarily reflected the net effects of cash provided from operating activities less cash used for investing activities and dividend payments. The increase in 2000 primarily reflected the net effects of cash used in operating activities, including a contribution to a VEBA trust, cash used in investing activities, dividend payments and preferred stock repurchases. Repayment of specifically attributed debt in 2001 of $370 million was primarily due to the termination and repayment of the accounts receivable facility, which was accounted for as secured borrowing and specifically attributed to U. S. Steel prior to the Separation. Settlement with Marathon of $54 million in 2002 reflected a cash payment made during the first quarter in accordance with the terms of the Separation. Repayment of long term debt in 2002 was mainly on the USSK loan. Common stock issued in 2002 reflected $192 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in May 2002, proceeds from stock sales to the United States Steel Corporation Savings Fund Plan for Salaried Employees and sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Dividends paid in 2002 were $19 million, compared with $57 million in 2001 and $97 million in 2000. Dividends paid in 2002 reflected the quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share established by U. S. Steel after the Separation, and effective with the March 2002 payment. Dividends paid in 2001 decreased $40 million from year 2000 due to a decrease in the quarterly dividend rate from $0.25 to $0.10 per share paid to USX U. S. Steel Group common stockholders, effective with the June 2001 payment. Dividends paid in 2001 and 2000 also included quarterly dividends on the 6.50% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock that was retained and repaid by Marathon as part of the Separation. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see "Liquidity". 40  Debt and Convertible Preferred Shares Ratings On January 9, 2003, Standard & Poors Ratings Services placed its credit ratings for U. S. Steel on credit watch with negative implications. On the same day, Moodys Investors Service placed its ratings for U. S. Steel under review for possible downgrade and Fitch Ratings placed its ratings for U. S. Steel on rating watch negative. These actions followed U. S. Steels announced bid for certain assets of National Steel Corporation ("National"). For further discussion about the bid, see "Outlook for 2003". As of January 9, 2003, Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch Ratings have assigned BB, Ba3 and BB ratings, respectively, to U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt. As of February 13, 2003, Standard & Poors and Fitch Ratings have assigned B and B+ ratings, respectively, to U. S. Steels 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (liquidation preference $50 per share) ("Series B Preferred"). These shares were issued February 10, 2003. For further discussion, see "Liquidity". Liquidity In November 2001, U. S. Steel entered into a five year Receivables Purchase Agreement with financial institutions. U. S. Steel established a wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Receivables LLC ("USSR"), which is a consolidated special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity that acquires, on a daily basis, eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries. USSR can sell an undivided interest in these receivables to certain commercial paper conduits. USSR pays the conduits a discount based on the conduits borrowing costs plus incremental fees, certain of which are determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. Fundings under the facility are limited to the lesser of eligible receivables or $400 million. Eligible receivables exclude certain obligors, amounts in excess of defined percentages for certain obligors, and amounts past due or due beyond a defined period. In addition, eligible receivables are calculated by deducting certain reserves, which are based on various determinants including concentration, dilution and loss percentages, as well as the credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had $343 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. In addition, U. S. Steel entered into a three year revolving credit facility expiring December 31, 2004, that provides for borrowings of up to $400 million secured by all domestic inventory and related assets ("Inventory Facility"), including receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The amount outstanding under the Inventory Facility cannot exceed the permitted "borrowing base," calculated on percentages of the value of eligible inventory. Borrowings under the facility bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR or the prime rate plus an applicable margin determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2002, $397 million was available to U. S. Steel under the Inventory Facility. While the term of the Receivables Purchase Agreement is five years, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the Inventory Facility and other debt obligations, any failure of USSR to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables, and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 26, 2003. USSK has a $10 million short term credit facility and a $40 million long term credit facility. At December 31, 2002, $48 million was available under these facilities. On July 2, 2002, U. S. Steel initiated an exchange offer for the 103/4% Senior Notes due 2008 ("Senior Notes"). The offer expired on August 5, 2002, and 100 percent of the notes were tendered for exchange. The new notes received in the exchange are identical in all material aspects to the tendered 41 notes except that the new notes have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As of December 31, 2002, the aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding was $535 million. The Senior Notes impose limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indenture include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indenture. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the Senior Notes were issued, excluding up to $50 million of dividends paid on common stock through the end of 2003, cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100% of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the Senior Notes that was filed as Exhibit 4(f) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. As of December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had in excess of $90 million of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. Also, exclusive of any limitations imposed, U. S. Steel can make aggregate dividend payments of up to $50 million on common stock from the third quarter of 2001 through the end of 2003, of which U. S. Steel has paid $38 million as of December 31, 2002. In addition to the remaining $12 million available through the end of 2003, U. S. Steel has the ability to make other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2002, which could also be used for dividend payments. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on our ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. The Inventory Facility imposes additional restrictions on U. S. Steel including the following: effective September 30, 2002, U. S. Steel must meet an interest expense coverage ratio of at least 2 to 1 through March 30, 2003, and 2.5 to 1 thereafter, and a debt to EBITDA leverage ratio of no more than 6 to 1 through December 30, 2002, 5.5 to 1 through March 30, 2003, 5 to 1 through June 29, 2003, 4.5 to 1 through September 29, 2003, 4 to 1 through March 30, 2004, and 3.75 to 1 thereafter; limitations on capital expenditures; and restrictions on investments. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under our material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral, and it may also cause termination events to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon our financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2002. 42 On February 10, 2003, U. S. Steel sold 5 million shares of Series B Preferred. The company also granted the underwriters an over allotment option to purchase up to an additional 750,000 shares of Series B Preferred. The Series B Preferred were issued under outstanding universal shelf registration statements. Proceeds from the offering will be used for general corporate purposes, including funding working capital, financing potential acquisitions, debt reduction and voluntary contributions to employee benefit plans. Dividend payments related to the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred will be approximately $18 million per year. These dividends will be considered restricted payments under the Senior Note covenants described above; however, the amount U. S. Steel has available to make restricted payments increased by the $242 million of net proceeds received from the sale of the Series B Preferred. The number of common shares that could be issued upon conversion of the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million shares to 19.2 million shares, based upon the timing of the conversion and the market price of U. S. Steels common stock. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. The total amount of active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit currently being used for financial assurance purposes is approximately $144 million. Events over the last year have caused major changes in the surety bond market including significant increases in surety bond premiums and reduced market capacity. These factors, together with our non investment grade credit rating, have caused U. S. Steel to replace some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. During 2002, U. S. Steel used $65 million of liquidity sources to provide financial assurance and expects to use approximately $70 million of additional liquidity sources for these purposes in 2003. The very high property taxes at U. S. Steels Gary Works facility in Indiana continue to be detrimental to Gary Works competitive position, both when compared to competitors in Indiana and with other steel facilities in the United States and abroad. U. S. Steel is a party to several property tax disputes involving Gary Works, including claims for refunds of approximately $65 million pertaining to tax years 1994 96 and 1999 and assessments of approximately $110 million in excess of amounts paid for the 2000 and 2001 tax years. In addition, interest may be imposed upon any final assessment. The disputes involve property values and tax rates and are in various stages of administrative appeals. U. S. Steel is vigorously defending against the assessments and pursuing its claims for refunds. U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon in the amount of $168 million as of December 31, 2002. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as obligations relating to Industrial Development and Environmental Improvement Bonds and Notes in the amount of $471 million that were assumed by U. S. Steel from Marathon, may be declared immediately due and payable. If that occurs, U. S. Steel may not be able to satisfy such obligations. In addition, if Marathon loses its investment grade ratings, certain of these obligations will be considered indebtedness under the Senior Notes indenture and for covenant calculations under the Inventory Facility. This occurrence could prevent U. S. Steel from incurring additional indebtedness under the Senior Notes or may cause a default under the Inventory Facility. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2002: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 243 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 343 Amount available under Inventory Facility 397 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 48 Total estimated liquidity $ 1,031 43 The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2002, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flow in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2003 2004 through 2005 2006 through 2007 Beyond 2007 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,438 $ 26 $ 50 $ 61 $ 1,301 Operating leases(b) 499 82 165 86 166 Capital commitments(c) 565 14 10 241 300 Environmental commitments(c) 135 28 107 (d) Usher Separation bonus(c) 3 3 Additional consideration for USSK purchase(e) 38 38 Other post retirement benefits (f) 40 435 520 (f) Total contractual obligations (g) $ 228 $ 663 $ 908 (g) (a)See Note 11 to the Financial Statements. (b)See Note 17 to the Financial Statements. (c)See Note 25 to the Financial Statements. (d)Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (e)See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (f)U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the year 2003 through 2007 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the use of funds available from a VEBA trust. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or VEBA restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make an accurate prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g)Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligations are not estimable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 17 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. Preliminary funding valuations of the pension plan for union employees as of December 31, 2002, indicate that the plan will not require cash funding for the 2003 plan year. However, cash funding in 2004 and beyond for this pension plan could be required, the level of which depends upon various factors such as future asset performance, the level of interest rates used to measure ERISA minimum funding levels, the impacts of business acquisitions or sales, union negotiated changes and future government regulation. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. Any such funding requirements could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 12 to the Financial Statements. 44 The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2002, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flow in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2003 2004 through 2005 2006 through 2007 Beyond 2007 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 64 $ 50 $ 9 $ $ 5 (c) Surety bonds(a) 73 46 27 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 7 7 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 27 3 9 6 9 Contingent liabilities: Marathon obligations(a)(d) 168 29 39 41 59 Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 717 170 368 141 38 Total commercial commitments $ 1,206 $ 305 $ 425 $ 188 $ 288 (a)Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b)See Note 15 to the Financial Statements. (c)Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d)See Note 25 to the Financial Statements. (e)Reflects contractual purchase commitments ("take or pay" arrangements) primarily for purchases of substrate and certain energy sources. In October 2002, U. S. Steel granted an option to purchase its shares of VSZ. U. S. Steel subsequently sold these shares. Cash proceeds of $31 million were received in consideration for the option and the sale of the shares, which resulted in a pre tax gain of $20 million in the fourth quarter. U. S. Steel previously accounted for its investment in VSZ under the cost method. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of capital expenditures, debt service for outstanding financings, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings and other external financing sources. However, there is no assurance that our business will generate sufficient operating cash flow or that external financing sources will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. If there is a prolonged delay in the recovery of the manufacturing sector of the U.S. economy, U. S. Steel believes that it can maintain adequate liquidity through a combination of deferral of nonessential capital spending, sales of non strategic assets and other cash conservation measures. U. S. Steel managements opinion concerning liquidity and U. S. Steels ability to avail itself in the future of the financing options mentioned in the above forward looking statements are based on currently available information. To the extent that this information proves to be inaccurate, future availability of financing may be adversely affected. Factors that could affect the availability of financing include the performance of U. S. Steel (as measured by various factors including cash provided from operating activities), levels of inventories and accounts receivable, the state of worldwide debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations of past and future performance, the overall U.S. financial climate, and, in particular, with respect to borrowings, the level of U. S. Steels outstanding debt and credit ratings by rating agencies. 45 Derivative Instruments See Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be adversely affected. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. USSK is subject to the laws of the Slovak Republic. The environmental laws of the Slovak Republic generally follow the requirements of the EU, which are comparable to domestic standards. USSK has also entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring, over time, its facilities into EU environmental compliance. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures for the last three years were(a): (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Domestic: Capital $ 4 $ 5 $ 18 Compliance Operating & maintenance 171 184 194 Remediation(b) 36 26 18 Total Domestic $ 211 $ 215 $ 230 USSK: Capital $ 10 $ 10 $ Compliance Operating & maintenance 8 6 Remediation 1 Total USSK $ 19 $ 16 $ Total U. S. Steel $ 230 $ 231 $ 230 (a)Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b)These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include noncash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. 46  U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 5% of total capital expenditures in 2002 and 2001, and 7% in 2000. Compliance expenditures represented 3% of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2002 and 2001, and 4% of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2000. Remediation spending during 2000 to 2002 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in a river that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. On October 23, 1998, a final Administrative Order on Consent was issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") addressing Corrective Action for Solid Waste Management Units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a RCRA Facility Investigation ("RFI") and a Corrective Measure Study ("CMS") at Gary Works. The Current Conditions Report, U. S. Steels first deliverable, was submitted to the EPA in January 1997 and was approved by the EPA in 1998. Phase I RFI work plans have been approved for the Coke Plant, the Process Sewers, and Background Soils at the site, along with the approval of one self implementing interim stabilization measure. Another eight Phase I RFI work plans have been submitted for EPA approval, thereby completing the Phase I requirement, along with two Phase II RFI work plans and one further self implementing interim stabilization measure. The costs of these studies are estimated to be $5.8 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property. The D2 disposal site and a nearby refuse area will be closed collectively. A Corrective Action Management Unit ("CAMU") for the West End Maintenance Area of Gary Works has been proposed that will include wastes from the D5 and T2 disposal sites. Total costs to close D2, D5, T2 and the refuse area are estimated to be $18.8 million. In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with the EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to the RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. The RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant. In December 1995, U. S. Steel reached an agreement in principle with the EPA and the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") with respect to alleged RCRA violations at Fairfield Works. A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, the EPA and the DOJ and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel will pay a civil penalty of $1 million, implement two Supplemental Environmental Projects ("SEPs") costing a total of $1.75 million and implement a RCRA corrective action at the facility. One SEP was completed during 1998 at a cost of $250,000. The second SEP is under way. As of February 22, 2000, the Alabama Department of Environmental Management assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of the EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved for the 47 site on September 16, 2002. Field sampling for the work plan commenced immediately after approval and will continue through the end of 2003. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $657,000. U. S. Steel has been notified that it is a potentially responsible party ("PRP") at 21 waste sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") as of December 31, 2002. In addition, there are 13 sites related to U. S. Steel where it has received information requests or other indications that it may be a PRP under CERCLA but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or make any judgment as to the amount thereof. There are also 37 additional sites related to U. S. Steel where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. At many of these sites, U. S. Steel is one of a number of parties involved and the total cost of remediation, as well as U. S. Steels share thereof, is frequently dependent upon the outcome of investigations and remedial studies. U. S. Steel accrues for environmental remediation activities when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. As environmental remediation matters proceed toward ultimate resolution or as additional remediation obligations arise, charges in excess of those previously accrued may be required. See Note 25 to the Financial Statements. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management ("IDEM") acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The public trustees completed a pre assessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have determined to perform a Natural Resource Damages Assessment. U. S. Steel was identified as a PRP along with 15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. U. S. Steel and eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The trustees notified the public of their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. In 2000, the trustees concluded their assessment of sediment injuries, which included a technical review of environmental conditions. The PRP joint defense group has proposed terms for the settlement of this claim, which have been endorsed by representatives of the trustees and the EPA to be included in a consent decree that U. S. Steel expects will resolve this claim. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs, and obtained an 8 acre parcel of land that has been transferred to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for addition to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Park owned by the National Park Service. No formal legal proceedings have been filed in this matter. On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by the EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX Corporation, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollution Discharge Elimination System ("NPDES") permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves potential liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. In 1999, U. S. Steel paid civil penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs. In addition, U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future monitoring costs and U. S. Steel is obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been or will be conveyed to the trustees. During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with the EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with the NPDES requirements. As of December 31, 2002, the sediment remediation project is an approved final interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works. As of December 31, 2002, project costs have amounted to $29.1 million with another $14.2 million presently projected to complete the project, over the next 12 months. 48 Construction began in January 2002 on a CAMU to contain the dredged material. The Toxic Substances Control Act unit within the CAMU is complete; the remaining construction was completed in February 2003. Phase 1 removal of PCB contaminated sediment was conducted in December 2002. Dredging resumed in February 2003 and will continue until dredging on the river is concluded, which is expected to occur in October 2003. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $4.9 million. At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $12.1 million through 2002. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. The EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the other sites on the EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Additional study and oversight costs through 2003 are estimated at $765,000. In 1997, USS/Kobe, a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. ("Kobe"), was the subject of a multi media audit by the EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. USS/Kobe and the EPA entered into a tolling agreement pending issuance of the final audit and commenced settlement negotiations in July 1999. In August 1999, the steelmaking and bar producing operations of USS/Kobe were combined with companies controlled by Blackstone Capital Partners II to form Republic. The tubular operations of USS/Kobe were transferred to a newly formed entity, Lorain Tubular Company, LLC ("Lorain Tubular"), which operated as a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe until December 31, 1999, when U. S. Steel purchased all of Kobes interest in Lorain Tubular. Republic and U. S. Steel are continuing negotiations with the EPA. Most of the matters raised by the EPA relate to Republics facilities; however, air discharges from U. S. Steels No. 3 seamless pipe mill have also been cited. U. S. Steel will be responsible for matters relating to its facilities. The final report and citations from the EPA have not been issued. On February 12, 1987, U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources ("PADER") entered into a Consent Order to resolve an incident in January 1985 involving the alleged unauthorized discharge of benzene and other organic pollutants from Clairton Works in Clairton, Pa. That Consent Order required U. S. Steel to pay a penalty of $50,000 and a monthly payment of $2,500 for five years. In 1990, U. S. Steel and the PADER reached agreement to amend the Consent Order. Under the amended Order, U. S. Steel agreed to remediate the Peters Creek Lagoon, a former coke plant waste disposal site; to pay a penalty of $300,000; and to pay a monthly penalty of up to $1,500 each month until the former disposal site is closed. Remediation costs have amounted to $10.2 million with another $1.4 million presently projected to complete the project. In 1988, U. S. Steel and two other PRPs (Bethelehem Steel Corporation and William Fiore) agreed to the issuance of an administrative order by the EPA to undertake emergency removal work at the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth Township, Pa. The cost of such removal, which has been completed, was approximately $4.2 million, of which U. S. Steel paid $3.4 million. The EPA indicated that further remediation of this site would be required. In October 1991, the PADER placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation, which was issued in 1997. After a feasibility study by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection ("PADEP") and submission of a conceptual remediation plan in 2001 by U. S. Steel, U. S. Steel submitted a revised conceptual remedial action plan on May 31, 2002. U. S. Steel and PADEP signed a consent decree on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. This consent decree has been noticed for public comments. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $6.8 million. 49 In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, N.C. fertilizer manufacturing site. The site was owned by Armour Agriculture Chemical Company (now named Viad) from 1912 to 1968. U. S. Steel owned the site from 1968 to 1986 and sold the site to LaRoche Industries in 1986. The agreed order allocated responsibility for assessment and cleanup costs as follows: Viad 48%, U. S. Steel 26% and LaRoche 26%; and LaRoche was appointed to be the lead party responsible for conducting the cleanup. In March 2001, U. S. Steel was notified that LaRoche had filed for protection under the bankruptcy law. On August 23, 2001, the allocation of responsibility for this site assessment and cleanup and the cost allocation was approved by the bankruptcy court in the LaRoche bankruptcy. The estimated remediation costs are $4.4 million to $5.7 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $1.6 million. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2003. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $28 million in 2003 primarily related to projects at USSK (approximately $16 million), Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Predictions beyond 2003 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $68 million in 2004 including $55 million for USSK; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel has been and is a defendant in a large number of cases in which approximately 14,000 claimants actively allege injury resulting from exposure to asbestos. Nearly all of these cases involve multiple defendants. These claims fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime law by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who performed work at U. S. Steel facilities; and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to an electrical cable product formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. To date, all actions resolved have been either dismissed or settled for immaterial amounts. In 2002, U. S. Steel disposed of claims from approximately 1,700 claimants with aggregate total payments of approximately $700,000 and over 4,700 cases were administratively dismissed. It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters; however, based upon present knowledge, management believes that it is unlikely that the resolution of the pending actions will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Among the factors that management considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the last 12 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the claimants to present any medical evidence supporting their claims, (2) that over the last several years the total number of pending claims has remained steady, (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured electrical cable and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals. This statement of belief is a forward looking statement. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual 50 and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in this forward looking statement. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 25 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. Outlook for 2003 Looking ahead, a loss from operations and a net loss are expected for the first quarter of 2003. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2002, pension and other benefit costs will increase by approximately $50 million and natural gas costs will be substantially higher. Although the fourth quarter included approximately $30 million for blast furnace outages, the first quarter will have normal negative seasonal effects related to iron ore and transportation operations. Shipments for the Flat rolled segment in the 2003 first quarter are expected to be in line with fourth quarter levels; however, product mix is expected to be less favorable as a result of planned slab sales and natural gas costs will be substantially higher. For full year 2003, Flat rolled shipments are expected to approximate 10.0 million net tons. For the Tubular segment, first quarter 2003 shipments are projected to be moderately higher than in the 2002 fourth quarter, and the average realized price is expected to be lower than in the fourth quarter. Shipments for full year 2003 are expected to be approximately 1.1 million net tons, as higher energy prices should spur a recovery in North American drilling activity in the second half of 2003. USSKs first quarter 2003 shipments are expected to increase slightly from the 2002 fourth quarter, and shipments for the full year are projected to be approximately 4.1 million net tons. USSKs average realized price in the first quarter should improve from the fourth quarter due primarily to a January 1, 2003, price increase of 20 euros per metric ton for all flat rolled products. A price increase of at least $30 per net ton has been announced for new oil country tubular goods orders for shipment after March 1, 2003. In addition, a price increase of $30 per ton was announced for new domestic sheet orders for shipment March 30, 2003 and later. Also, USSK announced a minimum price increase of 20 euros per metric ton for all shipments April 1, 2003 and later. Beginning in March 2002 and continuing throughout the year, USSK entered into various commercial arrangements with Sartid, an integrated steel company with facilities located in Smederevo and Sabac in the Republic of Serbia. Tolling agreements provide for the conversion of cold rolled full hard into tin coated products, and raw materials into hot rolled bands and other finished products. USSK retains ownership of these materials and markets all of the finished products. A facility management agreement requires USSK to provide management oversight of Sartids tin processing facilities in Sabac. On July 30, 2002, Sartid was placed into bankruptcy and shortly thereafter the bankruptcy administrator affirmed USSKs agreements with Sartid. At the request of the bankruptcy administrator, a Commercial and Technical Support Agreement was entered into on November 8, 2002, between USSK and the bankruptcy administrator, under which USSK has been retained to provide commercial, technical and financial support as necessary to assist the bankruptcy administrator in the operation of the Smederevo Facility. 51 In addition, U. S. Steel continues to explore possibilities for involvement in the restructuring of Sartid. Sartids steel production has averaged 500,000 tons per year during the past two years, which is substantially below design capacity due to Sartids financial difficulties. U. S. Steel believes that with needed rehabilitation and investments, Sartids long term raw steelmaking capability could be increased to slightly more than 2 million tons per year. Sartid primarily produces sheet products and its tinning facility has an annual capability of 130,000 tons. On April 10, 2002, U. S. Steel announced that it had signed a letter of intent to sell all of the coal and related assets associated with U. S. Steel Mining Companys West Virginia and Alabama mines. U. S. Steel and the purchaser continue discussions. U. S. Steel anticipates that the sale will generate proceeds of approximately $50 million and will result in a pre tax gain, excluding the recognition of the present value of obligations related to a multiemployer health care benefit plan created by the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992. The recognition of these obligations, which were broadly estimated to be $76 million at December 31, 2002, will be required when U. S. Steel exits the coal mining business and would result in an extraordinary loss of approximately $50 million on an after tax basis. On October 16, 2002, U. S. Steel announced that it had signed a letter of intent to sell its raw materials and transportation businesses to an entity to be formed by affiliates of Apollo Management, L.P. On February 10, 2003, U. S. Steel announced that it would suspend taking further actions relative to the sale of steel related assets with USWA representation, including the previously announced letter of intent to sell its raw materials and transportation units, pending labor negotiations with the USWA that are described below. On January 9, 2003, U. S. Steel announced that it had signed an Asset Purchase Agreement ("APA") with National to acquire substantially all of Nationals steelmaking and finishing assets for approximately $950 million, which includes the assumption of liabilities of approximately $200 million. Management believes that the acquisition of National would significantly increase U. S. Steels value added production capabilities and enhance U. S. Steels ability to serve the needs of North American customers in the automotive, container, appliance and construction industries. The closing of the agreement with National was contingent on, among other things, the approval of the Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, and the execution and ratification of a new labor agreement with the USWA with respect to the steelworkers at the National facilities to be acquired. On January 30, 2003, National announced that it had signed an agreement with another party, under which National would sell substantially all of its assets, including its pellet making facility, for $1,125 million, consisting of cash and the assumption of approximately $200 million of liabilities. The closing of the agreement between National and the other party is contingent on, among other things, the approval of the Bankruptcy Court and the execution and ratification of a new labor agreement with the USWA with respect to the steelworkers at the National facilities to be acquired. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Chicago established an auction period for National Steels assets that began on February 6, 2003, and will end on April 7, 2003. On February 10, 2003, U. S. Steel announced that it would immediately begin bargaining with the USWA to reach a new, progressive labor contract covering facilities now owned by bankrupt National as well as the USWA represented plants of U. S. Steel. U. S. Steel remains interested in acquiring the assets of National if it is able to reach a new labor agreement with the USWA for the steelworkers at the National facilities and acquire the assets at a price that it views to be appropriate in light of conditions in the steel and financial markets at the time of the auction. U. S. Steel is in discussions with the USWA regarding such a labor agreement, as well as other matters, including our mutual interest in encouraging consolidation in the North American integrated steel industry. U. S. Steel also 52 continues to evaluate other potential domestic acquisitions. Management cannot assure that U. S. Steel will participate in or prevail at the auction for Nationals assets. On February 10, 2003, U. S. Steel submitted an indicative, non binding proposal to the Government of Poland for the purchase of Polskie Huty Stali S.A. ("PHS"), the government owned steel company. In accordance with its confidentiality agreement with the Polish Government, U. S. Steel did not disclose the terms of its offer. On February 18, 2003, U. S. Steel was advised that it had been admitted to the next round of the privatization process. The Polish Government has indicated its desire to complete the privatization by September 30, 2003. Earlier this year four of Polands steel mills, including the two largest integrated facilities, were consolidated under PHS, which currently has annual raw steel production capability of approximately 9.0 million tons. PHSs steelmaking capability is expected to be reduced as a result of negotiations related to Polands accession into the EU. PHS primarily produces blooms, rails, wire and other long products, as well as plate and sheet products. In line with U. S. Steels strategy to dispose of non strategic assets, management is also considering conveying certain timber properties to one or more employee benefit plans. Based on preliminary actuarial information for 2003, the company expects annual net periodic pension costs to be $65 million and annual retiree medical and life insurance costs to be $203 million, excluding multiemployer plans. Since the expected return on assets component of net periodic cost is based upon a market related value that recognizes changes in fair value over three years, net periodic pension costs will also be progressively higher in 2004 and 2005. In 2002, U. S. Steel recorded a credit of $103 million for pensions (excluding settlement charges of $100 million) and a $138 million expense for retiree medical and life insurance (excluding multiemployer plans). Pension costs are expected to increase from 2002 primarily because of lower plan assets, average asset return assumptions that have been reduced from 8.8 percent to 8.2 percent, and a discount rate that has been reduced from 7.0 percent to 6.25 percent. The anticipated increase in retiree medical and life insurance costs primarily reflects unfavorable health care claims cost experience in 2002 for union retirees, the use of the lower discount rate and higher assumed medical cost inflation. For 2003, a 10% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits has been assumed. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75% for 2010 and remain at that level thereafter. As a result of the above factors and payments made in 2002 from benefit plans, U. S. Steels underfunded benefit obligations for retiree medical and life insurance increased from $1.8 billion at year end 2001 to $2.6 billion at year end 2002. Also, the funded status of the projected pension benefit obligation declined from an overfunded position of $1.2 billion at year end 2001 to an underfunded position of $0.4 billion at year end 2002. This annual report contains forward looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments and prices, potential asset dispositions and potential acquisitions. Some factors, among others, that could affect 2003 market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both domestic operations and USSK include product demand, prices and mix, global and company steel production levels, plant operating performance, the timing and completion of facility projects, natural gas prices and usage, changes in environmental, tax and other laws, the resumption of operation of steel facilities sold under the bankruptcy laws, and U.S. and European economic performance and political developments. Domestic steel shipments and prices could be affected by import levels and actions taken by the U.S. Government and its agencies. Additional factors that may affect USSKs results are foreign currency fluctuations and political factors in Europe that include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures. Consummation of the asset dispositions will depend upon a number of factors including negotiation of definitive agreements; regulatory approvals, including Department of Labor approvals for the conveyances to the benefit plans; and the ability of the purchasers to arrange financing. Factors that may impact the occurrence and timing of the 53 acquisition of Nationals steelmaking and finishing assets include the negotiation of a new labor agreement between U. S. Steel and the United Steelworkers of America covering employees of the National facilities, receipt of necessary clearances from the Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act, approval by the Surface Transportation Board under the Surface Transportation Act for the acquisition of the Delray Connecting Railroad Company, the absence of any injunctions blocking the acquisition, and the results of the auction process contemplated in Nationals bankruptcy court filing. Accounting Standards On January 1, 2002, U. S. Steel adopted SFAS No. 141 "Business Combinations," No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" and No. 144 "Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." There was no financial statement implication related to the initial adoption of these Statements. For more information see Note 4 to the Financial Statements. On April 30, 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections." Generally, SFAS No. 145 is effective for transactions occurring after May 15, 2002. There was no financial statement implication related to the adoption of this Statement. For more information see Note 4 to the Financial Statements. The adoption of these Statements has not affected U. S. Steels critical accounting estimates. In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143 "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS No. 143 establishes a new accounting model for the recognition and measurement of retirement obligations associated with tangible long lived assets. SFAS No. 143 requires that an asset retirement obligation should be capitalized as part of the cost of the related long lived asset and subsequently allocated to expense using a systematic and rational method. U. S. Steel adopted this Statement effective January 1, 2003. The transition adjustment of less than $15 million, net of tax, resulting from the adoption of SFAS No. 143 will be reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in the first quarter of 2003. SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" was issued in July 2002. SFAS No. 146 addresses significant issues regarding the recognition, measurement, and reporting of costs that are associated with exit and disposal activities, including restructuring activities. The scope of SFAS No. 146 includes (1) costs to terminate contracts that are not capital leases; (2) costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees; and (3) termination benefits provided to employees who are involuntarily terminated under the terms of a one time benefit arrangement that is not an ongoing benefit arrangement or an individual deferred compensation contract. The provisions of this Statement will be effective for exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others." The Interpretation elaborates on the disclosure to be made by a guarantor about obligations under certain guarantees that it has issued. It also clarifies that at the inception of a guarantee, the company must recognize liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. The initial recognition and measurement provisions apply on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements have been adopted for the 2002 annual financial statements (See Note 25 to the Financial Statements). U. S. Steel will apply the remaining provisions of the Interpretation prospectively as required. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure," which amends SFAS No. 123. SFAS No. 148 provides 54 alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, SFAS No. 148 amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require more prominent and more frequent disclosures in financial statements about the effects of stock based compensation. The Company has adopted the annual disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 and will adopt the interim provisions effective with the first quarter of 2003. The Company is not changing to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation; therefore, the transition provisions are not applicable. FASB Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," was issued in January 2003 and addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that do not have sufficient equity investment to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. This Interpretation requires consolidation of a variable interest entity by the primary beneficiary and requires certain disclosures by the primary and other significant beneficiaries. The provisions of this Interpretation apply immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003, and to variable interest entities in which a company obtains an interest after that date. It applies for the interim period beginning after June 15, 2003, for variable interest entities in which a company holds a variable interest that it acquired before February 1, 2003. The Interpretation may be applied prospectively with a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of first application or by restating previously issued financial statements for one or more years with a cumulative effect adjustment as of the beginning of the first year restated. If it is reasonably possible that an enterprise will consolidate or disclose information about a variable interest entity when this Interpretation becomes effective, the company must make certain disclosures in all financial statements initially issued after January 31, 2003, regardless of the date on which the variable interest entity was created. U. S. Steel is in the process of assessing the appropriate application of this Interpretation. 55 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas, heating oil and nonferrous metals and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. To a lesser extent, U. S. Steel is exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal and coke and the purchase of natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pre tax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Decrease of(a) 2002 2001 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Zinc 2.8 7.0 3.5 8.9 Tin 0.5 1.2 0.2 0.6 (a)With the adoption of SFAS No. 133, the definition of a derivative instrument has been expanded to include certain fixed price physical commodity contracts. Such instruments are included in the above table. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001. Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2002, may cause future pre tax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. 56 U. S. Steel recorded net pre tax losses on other than trading activity of $6 million in 2002, losses of $13 million in 2001 and gains of $2 million in 2000. These gains and losses were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For additional quantitative information relating to derivative commodity instruments, see Note 23 to the Financial Statements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2002 and 2001 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Incremental Increase in Fair Value(c) Incremental Increase in Fair Value(c) As of December 31 Fair Value(b) Fair Value(b) Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 45 $ $ 42 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f) $ 1,165 $ 72 $ 1,122 $ 79 (a)Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b)See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c)Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10% decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001. (d)For additional information, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. (e)Includes amounts due within one year. (f)Fair value was based on market prices where available, or current borrowing rates for financings with similar terms and maturities. For additional information, see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steels portfolio of long term debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $72 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSK, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro and Slovak koruna. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollar (total notional value of approximately $15.0 million) and Slovak koruna (total 57 notional value of approximately $26.6 million). A 10% increase in the December 31, 2002 euro forward rates would result in an additional $4.2 million charge to income. Equity Price Risk On October 9, 2002, U. S. Steel sold its investment in VSZ. Prior to that time, U. S. Steel was subject to equity price risk and market liquidity risk related to that investment. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 58  
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS U. S. Steel has five reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products ("Flat rolled"), Tubular Products ("Tubular"), U. S. Steel Kosice ("USSK"), Straightline Source ("Straightline") and USS Real Estate ("Real Estate"). Prior to December 31, 2001, the businesses of U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation ("Marathon"). On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USXU. S. Steel Group common stock ("Steel Stock") in exchange for all outstanding shares of Steel Stock on a one for one basis ("the Separation"). (For additional information on the Separation, see Note 2 to the Financial Statements.) Effective with the first quarter of 2002, following the Separation, U. S. Steel established a new internal financial reporting structure, which resulted in a change in reportable segments from Domestic Steel and USSK to Flat rolled, Tubular and USSK. In addition, U. S. Steel revised the presentation of several items of income and expense within income (loss) from reportable segments. Net pension credits, costs related to former businesses and administrative expenses previously not reported at the segment level are now directly charged or allocated to the reportable segments and other businesses. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2002, the Straightline and Real Estate reportable segments, which were previously reflected in Other Businesses, were added. The presentation of Straightline and Real Estate as separate segments resulted from the application of quantitative threshold tests under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 131 rather than any fundamental change in the management or structure of the businesses. The composition of the Flat rolled, Tubular and USSK segments remains unchanged from prior periods. Comparative results for 2001 and 2000 have been conformed to the current year presentation. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, plate and tin mill products. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the transportation (including automotive), appliance, service center, conversion, container, and construction markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities and an equity investee involved in the production of tubular goods. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The USSK segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels integrated steel mill located in the Slovak Republic; a production facility in Germany; operations under facility management and support agreements in Serbia; and equity investees, primarily located in Central Europe. These operations produce and sell sheet, plate, tin, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products, as well as coke. USSK primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, appliance, transportation, service center, container, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The Straightline segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels technology enabled distribution business that serves steel customers primarily in the eastern and central United States. Straightline competes in the steel service center marketplace using a nontraditional business process to sell, process and deliver flat rolled steel products in small to medium sized order quantities primarily to job shops, contract manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers across an array of industries. 27 The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic mineral interests that are not assigned to other operating units; timber properties; and residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed or developed for sale or lease. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of coal, coke and iron bearing taconite pellets; transportation services; and engineering and consulting services. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects" or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see "Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements" on page 73. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations are based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment, valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits ("OPEB") The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, and escalation of retiree health care costs. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below: U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors at year end 2002, U. S. Steel has decreased the expected annual return on pension plan assets from 8.8% in 2002 to 8.2% in 2003. This decrease in the expected return will negatively affect the return on asset component of net periodic pension costs by approximately $55 million in 2003 as compared to 2002. The investment performance of pension plan assets over the last three years will also unfavorably impact net periodic pension cost during 2003 and later years 28 primarily through the use of a lower asset base in calculating the expected return on plan assets. Since the expected return on assets component of net periodic benefit cost is based upon a market related value that recognizes changes in fair value over three years, net periodic pension cost will also be progressively higher in 2004 and 2005. Net periodic pension cost is expected to total $65 million in 2003 as compared to a $103 million credit (before settlement charges) in 2002. A 1/2 percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets for 2003 would have decreased or increased the net periodic pension cost by $40 million. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steels two main pension plans had a fair market value of $7.2 billion which was 63 percent invested in equity securities, 35 percent in debt securities and 2 percent in all other investments. U. S. Steel determines the discount rate applied to pension and OPEB obligations at each year end based on a number of external barometers used to measure the status of high quality bond rates consistent with the expected payout period of the obligations. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 7.0% to 6.25%. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $31 million for pensions and $10 million for OPEB in 2003 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts, which in recent years had not been a significant component of benefit costs. Total OPEB costs in 2003 are expected to be approximately $203 million, excluding multiemployer plans. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased the 2003 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $21 million and $9 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased the 2003 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $5 million and $10 million, respectively. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans and through consultation with health care experts. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 10% for 2003. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75% in 2010 and remain at that level thereafter. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the escalation trend would have increased net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $25 million in 2003. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the escalation trend would have decreased net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $21 million in 2003. Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. Based on preliminary funding valuations, U. S. Steels main pension plans are not expected to require cash funding for the 2003 plan year. However, the lower returns on plan assets experienced in recent years may have a negative impact on funding for U. S. Steels pension plan for union employees in 2004 and later. The timing and amount of any required future funding cannot be determined at this time. For further cash flow discussion, see the Liquidity section. Asset Impairments U. S. Steel evaluates the impairment of its property, plant and equipment on an individual asset basis or by logical groupings of assets. Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in 29 the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. The amount of deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2002, was $1,622 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $30 million. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of these deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. As of December 31, 2002, the amount of undistributed earnings was approximately $260 million. If circumstances change and it is determined that earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future, a charge of up to $70 million could be required. Any charge taken is contingent upon the amount of undistributed earnings that U. S. Steel would plan to remit. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered as potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority) an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2002, total accruals for environmental remediation were $135 million. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Income The principal drivers of U. S. Steels financial results are price, volume, product mix and costs. To the extent that these factors are affected by industry conditions and the overall economic climate, revenues and income will reflect such conditions. Revenues and other income for each of the last three years are summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Revenues by product: Sheet and semi finished steel products $ 4,048 $ 3,163 $ 3,288 Plate and tin mill products 1,057 1,273 977 Tubular products 554 755 754 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore) 502 485 626 Other(a) 788 610 445 Income (loss) from investees 33 64 (8 ) Net gains on disposal of assets 29 22 46 Other income 43 3 4 Total revenues and other income $ 7,054 $ 6,375 $ 6,132 (a)Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; steel mill products distribution; the management of mineral resources; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. 30  Total revenues and other income in 2002 increased by $679 million from 2001 primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic, which was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. These were partially offset by reduced domestic tubular and plate shipment volumes. Total revenues and other income increased by $243 million in 2001 from 2000 primarily due to the inclusion of USSK revenues for the full year, the inclusion of Transtar revenues following the reorganization and higher income from investees relating to the gain on the Transtar reorganization, partially offset by lower domestic sheet, tubular and plate shipment volumes, lower average realized prices for domestic sheet products, and the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic. Income (loss) from operations for the last three years was: (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Flat rolled $ (31 ) $ (536 ) $ 31 Tubular 4 88 83 USSK 110 123 2 Straightline (41 ) (17 ) Real Estate 57 69 72 Total income (loss) from reportable segments 99 (273 ) 188 Other Businesses 38 (17 ) 67 Income (Loss) from operations before special items 137 (290 ) 255 Special Items: Pension settlement losses (100 ) Asset impairments receivables (14 ) (146 ) (8 ) Asset impairments intangible asset (20 ) Costs related to Separation (25 ) Costs related to Fairless shutdown (1 ) (38 ) Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire(a) 39 46 Federal excise tax refund 38 Gain on VSZ share sale 20 Reversal of litigation accrual 9 Gain on Transtar reorganization 68 Environmental and legal contingencies (36 ) Asset impairments coal (71 ) Impairment and other costs related to investments in equity investees (36 ) Total income (loss) from operations $ 128 $ (405 ) $ 104 (a)In excess of facility repair costs. Segment results for Flat rolled The segment loss for Flat rolled of $31 million in 2002 reflected an improvement of $505 million from 2001. The substantially decreased loss was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies, higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products, lower energy costs and cost saving initiatives. Flat rolled recorded a segment loss of $536 million in 2001, versus income of $31 million in 2000, a decrease of $567 million. The decrease was primarily due to lower sheet prices and reduced shipment volumes for sheet products, which resulted in less efficient operating rates and higher unit costs, lower results from tin operations during the phase out of operations at the Fairless Plant, higher than 31 anticipated start up and operating expenses associated with the March acquisition of East Chicago Tin, and business interruption effects at USS POSCO following the cold mill fire in May. Segment results for Tubular Tubular segment income for 2002 was $4 million, compared to $88 million in 2001. The decline was primarily due to lower shipment volumes and lower average realized prices for tubular products. Segment income for Tubular in 2001 reflected an improvement of $5 million from 2000 primarily due to higher tubular prices during the first half of 2001. Segment results for USSK USSK segment income for 2002 was $110 million, a decrease of $13 million compared to 2001. The decrease was primarily due to the unfavorable effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on costs, higher freight costs, losses on conversion operations at Sartid a.d. ("Sartid") in Serbia and business development expenses associated with Sartid and other expansion opportunities in Europe, partially offset by higher average realized prices, which were in part due to favorable exchange rate effects. The net currency exchange effect on total year income from operations was not material. USSK segment income for the full year 2001 was $123 million, compared to $2 million in 2000 for the period following U. S. Steels acquisition of USSK on November 24, 2000. The increase was primarily due to U. S. Steels full year of ownership, changes in commercial strategy, strong customer focused marketing and a favorable cost structure. Segment results for Straightline Straightline recorded a segment loss of $41 million in 2002, its first full year of operations, compared with a loss of $17 million in 2001 for the period following the start up of operations on October 30, 2001. These results reflect the early stage costs associated with building a new business, achieving market penetration, and creating the infrastructure for anticipated future growth. Segment results for Real Estate Real Estate segment income for 2002 was $57 million, compared with $69 million in 2001. The decrease primarily reflected lower mineral interest royalties. Real Estate segment income for 2001 declined $3 million from 2000 primarily due to a decline in land sales, partially offset by increases in mineral interest royalties. Results for Other Businesses Income for Other Businesses for 2002 was $38 million, a significant improvement from 2001s loss of $17 million. The increase primarily reflected higher income from taconite pellet and coal operations, partially offset by lower results from coke operations. The loss for Other Businesses for 2001 reflected a decline of $84 million from income of $67 million in 2000 mainly as a result of lower income from taconite pellet and coke operations, and a decline in income related to Transtar. These decreases were partially offset by improved results from coal operations due to improved operating and geological conditions and reduced depreciation following an impairment of coal assets in 2000. Net periodic pension credit Net periodic pension credits, which are primarily noncash and are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $3 million in 2002, $120 million in 2001 and $273 million in 2000. The decrease of $117 million from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher settlement charges, which totaled $100 million in 2002, compared with $4 million in 2001. The credit in 2002 was also negatively affected by a lower expected return on plan assets as a result of lower market related values of plan assets in 32 2002. The credit in 2001 also included $30 million of termination expense due principally to a non union voluntary early retirement program offered in conjunction with the Separation and a shutdown of a majority of the Fairless Plant. The decrease of $153 million in the net periodic pension credit from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to the $69 million effect of the transition asset being fully amortized in 2000, an unfavorable change in the amortization of actuarial (gains)/losses and $30 million of termination expense. For additional information on pensions, see Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $148 million in 2002 as compared to 2001. The increase in 2002 was primarily due to the decrease in the net periodic pension credit as previously discussed, the impairment of remaining retiree medical cost reimbursements receivable from Republic, increased legal and consulting expenses primarily due to the Section 201 trade cases and potential industry consolidation, and the ongoing expansion of Straightline. Also contributing to the increase in 2002 were higher retiree medical costs primarily due to decreases in the discount rate, and higher escalation rates for medical expenses. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of $286 million in 2001 as compared to 2000 was due to several factors, including the decrease in the net periodic pension credit previously discussed. Other contributing factors were the increase in costs in 2001 as a result of the full year inclusion of USSK costs, the inclusion of Transtar costs following the reorganization, Separation costs and the impairment of retiree medical cost reimbursements owed by Republic. Items not allocated to segments: Pension settlement losses were related to retirements of personnel covered under the nonunion qualified pension plan, the non tax qualified pension plan and the non tax qualified executive management supplemental pension program. The settlements occurred primarily as a result of a voluntary early retirement program which was completed in June 2002. Asset impairments receivables were for charges related to reserves established against receivables exposure from financially distressed steel companies, primarily Republic. Asset impairments intangible asset was for the impairment of an intangible asset in 2001 related to the five year agreement for LTV to supply U. S. Steel with pickled hot bands entered into in conjunction with the acquisition of LTVs tin mill products business. This impairment followed the discontinuation of LTV operations at East Chicago. Costs related to Separation were for U. S. Steels share of professional fees and expenses and certain other costs directly attributable to the Separation in 2001. Costs related to Fairless shutdown resulted from the permanent shutdown of the pickling, cold rolling and tin mill facilities at the Fairless Plant in 2001. Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire represent U. S. Steels share of insurance recoveries in excess of facility repair costs for the cold rolling mill fire at USS POSCO, which occurred in May 2001. The final payment was received in December 2002. Federal excise tax refund represents the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales during the period 1993 through 1999. During 2002, U. S. Steel received cash and recognized pre tax income of $38 million, which is included in other income on the statement of operations. Of the $38 million received, $11 million represented interest. The refunds resulted from a 1998 federal district court decision that found such taxes to be unconstitutional. Gain on VSZ share sale represents the gain recognized in October 2002 when U. S. Steel granted an option to purchase its shares of VSZ and subsequently sold these shares. 33 Reversal of litigation accrual represents the reversal in the first quarter of 2002 of a prior litigation accrual as a result of a final court ruling in U. S. Steels favor. Gain on Transtar reorganization represents U. S. Steels share of the gain in 2001. Because this was a transaction with a noncontrolling shareholder, Transtar recognized a gain by comparing the carrying value of the businesses sold to their fair value. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements. Environmental and legal contingencies relate to certain environmental and legal accruals. Asset impairments coal was for asset impairments at coal mines in Alabama and West Virginia in 2000 following a reassessment of long term prospects after adverse geological conditions were encountered. Impairment and other costs related to investments in equity investees represents charges to establish reserves against notes from Republic and to record U. S. Steels share of Republic special charges which resulted from the completion of a financial restructuring of Republic. Net interest and other financial costs for each of the last three years are summarized in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Net interest and other financial costs $ 115 $ 141 $ 105 Plus: Favorable adjustment to interest related to prior years taxes 67 Net interest and other financial costs adjusted to exclude above item $ 115 $ 208 $ 105 Adjusted net interest and other financial costs decreased $93 million in 2002 as compared with 2001, primarily due to lower average debt levels following the December 31, 2001 value transfer of $900 million from Marathon. The change from 2001 to 2002 also reflects favorable foreign currency effects. These effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency, and resulted in a net gain of $16 million in 2002 compared to a net loss of $1 million in 2001. Adjusted net interest and other financial costs increased by $103 million in 2001 as compared with 2000. This increase was largely due to higher average debt levels, which resulted from negative cash flow and the elective funding for employee benefits and the acquisition of USSK, both of which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2000. The income tax benefit in 2002 was $48 million, compared with a benefit of $328 million in 2001, and a provision of $20 million in 2000. The tax benefit in 2001 included a $33 million deferred tax benefit associated with the Transtar reorganization. The decrease in the tax benefit from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to reduced pre tax losses from domestic operations. The change to a tax benefit in 2001 as compared to a tax provision in 2000 was primarily the result of losses from domestic operations reported in 2001. The tax benefits in 2002 and 2001 reflected pre tax losses from domestic operations and pre tax income from foreign operations for which virtually no income tax provision was recorded. The Slovak Income Tax Act provides an income tax credit which is available to USSK if certain conditions are met. In order to claim the tax credit in any year, 60% of USSKs sales must be export sales and USSK must reinvest the tax credits claimed in qualifying capital expenditures during the five years following the year in which the tax credit is claimed. The provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 100% of USSKs tax liability for years 2000 through 2004 and 50% for the years 2005 through 2009. Management believes that USSK fulfilled all of the necessary conditions for claiming the tax credit for 2000 through 2002. As a result of claiming these tax credits and certain tax planning strategies to reinvest earnings in foreign operations, virtually no income tax provision is recorded for USSK income. If circumstances change and it is determined that 34 earnings will be remitted in the foreseeable future, a charge would be required to record the deferred tax liability for the amounts planned to be remitted. In October 2002, a tax credit limit was negotiated by the Slovak government as part of an agreement required for the Slovak Republics entry into the European Union ("EU"). Effective upon the Slovak Republics entry into the EU, the agreement will limit to $500 million the total tax credit to be granted to USSK during the period 2000 through 2009. The impact of the tax credit limit is expected to be minimal since Slovak tax laws have been modified and tax rates have been reduced since the acquisition of USSK. The agreement also places limits upon total production and export sales to the EU, allowing for modest growth during the period covered by the investment incentive. Management believes that the agreement will not have a significant impact on future USSK production and results of operations. The issue of certain subsidies or incentives to the steel industry is the subject of ongoing discussions at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD"). It is possible that these discussions could result in the adoption of an OECD agreement which could negatively impact USSKs tax credit. Net income in 2002 was $61 million, compared with a net loss of $218 million in 2001 and a net loss of $21 million in 2000. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Operations Flat rolled shipments were 9.9 million tons in 2002, 8.8 million tons in 2001 and 9.6 million tons in 2000. Tubular shipments were 0.8 million tons in 2002, 1.0 million tons in 2001 and 1.1 million tons in 2000. Domestic shipments in 2001 were affected by a weak domestic economy, which reduced demand for sheet, plate and tubular products. High import levels impacted all three years. Exports accounted for approximately 5% of U. S. Steels domestic shipments in 2002, 2001 and 2000. USSK shipments were 3.9 million net tons in 2002, 3.7 million net tons in 2001 and 0.3 million net tons in 2000 in the short period following the acquisition. Domestic raw steel production was 11.5 million tons in 2002, compared with 10.1 million tons in 2001 and 11.4 million tons in 2000. Domestic raw steel production averaged 90% of capability in 2002, compared with 79% of capability in 2001 and 89% of capability in 2000. In 2002, domestic raw steel production was negatively affected by poor market conditions during the first quarter, as well as the acceleration into the fourth quarter of some blast furnace repair work that was originally scheduled to occur in 2003. In 2001, domestic raw steel production was negatively impacted by poor economic conditions and the high level of imports. In 2000, domestic raw steel production was negatively impacted by a planned reline at the Gary Works No. 4 blast furnace in July 2000. Because of market conditions, U. S. Steel limited its domestic production by keeping the Gary Works No. 4 blast furnace out of service until February 2001. U. S. Steels stated annual domestic raw steel production capability was 12.8 million tons in 2002, 2001 and 2000. USSK raw steel production was 4.4 million tons in 2002 and 4.1 million tons in 2001, or 88% and 81%, respectively, of USSKs stated annual raw steel production capability of 5.0 million net tons. The domestic steel industry is restructuring after many years of oversupply and low prices attributable largely to excess imports, which resulted in significant capacity closures starting in late 2000 and led to the introduction of Section 201 import tariffs in March 2002. The combination of capacity closures, trade restrictions and the imposition of tariffs led to a recovery of steel prices from 20 year lows in late 2001 and early 2002. U. S. Steel benefited in 2002 from reduced domestic supply resulting from the temporary or permanent closure of steelmaking capacity, as well as the Section 201 remedies announced by President Bush on March 5, 2002. Despite the trade remedies, steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 27% of the domestic steel market in 2002, compared to 24% and 27%, for 2001 and 2000, respectively. In 2002, imports of steel pipe and cold rolled sheets decreased 16% and 38%, respectively, compared to 2001; 35 and imports of hot rolled sheets and galvanized sheets increased 61% and 39%, respectively, compared to 2001. Remedies under Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 became effective for imports entering the U.S. on and after March 20, 2002, and are intended to provide protection against imports from certain countries, but there are products and countries not covered and imports of these exempt products or of products from these countries may still have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels revenues and income. Through August 2002, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the Office of the United States Trade Representative had granted exclusions from the Section 201 remedies for many products, and another round of processing requests for exclusion is in process. The exclusions impact a number of products produced by U. S. Steel and have weakened the protection initially provided by this relief. Additionally, as initially imposed, the remedies decrease each year they are in effect. For flat rolled products, the tariff decreases from 30% in the first year to 24% in the second year and 16% in the third year, and the quota for slab imports that can enter the United States without imposition of the Section 201 tariff increases from 5.4 million net tons in the first year to 5.9 million net tons in the second year and 6.4 million net tons in the third year, although the quantity of slabs that can actually enter the country free of tariffs is substantially larger than that amount due to exemptions of various slab products and exemptions of certain countries that ship slabs. Various countries have challenged President Bushs action with the World Trade Organization ("WTO") and have taken other actions responding to the Section 201 remedies. The WTO is expected to announce its initial decision on the challenges filed against the Section 201 action by April 2003. In addition, as provided by President Bush when he announced the Section 201 action in March 2002, the U.S. International Trade Commission will conduct a mid term review in the third quarter of 2003 and recommend to the President whether the remedies should remain in effect. At the same time, the Bush Administration has continued discussions at the OECD aimed at the reduction of inefficient steel production capacity and the elimination and limitation of certain subsidies to the steel industry throughout the world. On March 31, 2002, the Canadian International Trade Tribunal ("CITT") initiated a safeguard inquiry to determine whether imports of certain steel goods from countries, including the U.S., had injured the Canadian steel industry. On July 5, 2002, the CITT announced its determination that the Canadian steel industry had been injured by reason of imports of certain products including the following which are made by U. S. Steel: cut to length plate, cold rolled steel sheet and standard pipe up to 16" o.d. On August 20, 2002, the CITT announced that it was recommending as a remedy a three year quota, with tariffs imposed on tonnages exceeding the quota. This resulted in quota levels for the U.S. which are lower than 2001 shipments. For shipments exceeding the quota levels, tariffs would be imposed ranging from 15 25% in the first year, 11 18% in the second year and 7 12% in the third year. The CITTs remedy recommendations were forwarded to the Ministry of Finance, but a final decision regarding a remedy has not yet been made. On December 20, 2001, the European Commission commenced an anti dumping investigation concerning hot rolled coils imported into the EU from the Slovak Republic and five other countries. On January 20, 2003, the Commission issued a final disclosure advising of its determinations relative to the dumping and injury margins applicable to those imports. The Commissions findings set the dumping margin applicable to those imports at 25.8% and the injury margin at 18.6%. USSK is currently in discussions with the Commission regarding the possibility of entering into a price undertaking agreement which would set minimum prices for future shipments of hot rolled coils into the EU. If no price undertaking agreement is reached, at the conclusion of these proceedings (which must occur by March 20, 2003), duties equal to the injury margin of 18.6% will be imposed upon hot rolled coils shipped by USSK into the EU. All anti dumping measures, including any price undertaking agreement, will be terminated at such time that Slovakia becomes a member of the EU, which is currently anticipated to occur in May 2004. Definitive measures were recently announced in a separate safeguard trade action commenced by the European Commission. In that proceeding, which is similar to the U.S. Section 201 proceedings, 36 quota/tariff measures were announced relative to the import of certain steel products into the EU. USSK is impacted by the quota/tariff measures on four products: non alloy hot rolled coils, hot rolled strip, hot rolled sheet and cold rolled flat products. Shipment quotas were set for all four products. The shipment quotas applicable to the first year of the measure were set at 10% above the average shipments during the period 1999 2001. An additional 5% will be added to the shipment quotas applicable to the remainder of the safeguard measure period. The shipment quotas on all products, other than non alloy hot rolled coils, are country specific. The non alloy hot rolled coil quota is a global quota. If the shipment quotas are exceeded, tariffs will be imposed. The tariffs which would apply to shipments into the EU through March 28, 2003, are 17.5% for non alloy hot rolled coils and 26% for the other three products. For the period March 29, 2003, through March 28, 2004, these tariffs will be reduced to 15.7% and 23.4%, respectively. On March 29, 2004, these tariffs will again be reduced to 14.1% and 21.0%, respectively. The safeguard measures are scheduled to expire on March 28, 2005. These measures will be terminated at such time that Slovakia becomes a member of the EU. Safeguard proceedings similar to those pursued by the European Commission have recently been commenced by Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. Provisional quota/tariff measures have been imposed in Poland and Hungary. To date, the Czech Republic has neither imposed provisional safeguard measures nor announced definitive measures. The impact on USSK of these trade actions in the EU and Central Europe cannot be predicted at this time. However, in light of market opportunities elsewhere, recent developments in the EU hot rolled coil anti dumping case and USSKs experience operating under the safeguard measures in place in the EU, Poland and Hungary, it appears unlikely that these matters will have a material adverse effect on USSKs operating profit in 2003. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition SFAS No. 87 "Employers Accounting for Pensions" provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO"), the sponsor must establish a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2002, the fair value of plan assets for the pension plan for union employees ("union plan") was $4.5 billion. Based on asset values as of December 31, 2002, the ABO for this plan exceeded the fair value of plan assets by $543 million. Consequently, required minimum liability adjustments were recorded, resulting in the recognition of an intangible asset of $414 million and a charge to equity, net of related tax effects, of $748 million at December 31, 2002. Current assets at year end 2002 increased $367 million from year end 2001 primarily due to increased inventory balances related to higher operating rates and the continuing expansion of Straightline, higher trade receivables resulting from increased sales volumes in late 2002 as compared to the latter part of 2001, and an increase in cash and cash equivalents. These were partially offset by a decline in related party receivables mainly as a result of lower shipments and changes in the shipment mix to USS POSCO. Net property, plant and equipment at year end 2002 decreased $106 million from year end 2001 primarily due to capital spending that was $92 million lower than depreciation, depletion and amortization. The pension asset at year end 2002 decreased $1,091 million from year end 2001 primarily reflecting the elimination of the prepaid pension asset related to the union plan. 37 The intangible pension asset of $414 million at December 31, 2002, resulted from the minimum liability adjustments that were recorded for the union plan. Other noncurrent assets of $144 million at year end 2002 increased $63 million from year end 2001 mainly as a result of an increase in restricted cash deposits primarily used to collateralize letters of credit to provide financial assurance. Current liabilities at year end 2002 increased $114 million from year end 2001 primarily due to an increase in accounts payable as a result of higher operating levels in late 2002 as compared to the same period in 2001, and higher accrued taxes, partially offset by lower accounts payable to related parties primarily due to payment of a $54 million cash settlement to Marathon in accordance with the terms of the Separation. Long term debt at December 31, 2002, was $1,408 million, $26 million lower than year end 2001. The decrease in debt was primarily due to a repayment on the USSK loan in April 2002. Deferred income taxes at December 31, 2002, reflected a decrease of $509 million from December 31, 2001. The change primarily resulted from the establishment of federal and state deferred tax assets related to the adjustment to the minimum liability for the union plan and the related intangible asset. Employee benefits at December 31, 2002, increased $593 million from year end 2001 primarily as a result of the $543 million minimum liability recorded for the union plan. Additional paid in capital increased by $214 million from December 31, 2001, due to an equity offering of 10,925,000 common shares that was completed in May 2002, stock sales to the United States Steel Corporation Savings Fund Plan for Salaried Employees and sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Accumulated other comprehensive loss of $803 million at December 31, 2002, increased by $754 million from year end 2001, primarily reflecting the $748 million charge to equity resulting from the minimum liability adjustment for the union plan. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities was $279 million in 2002, a decrease of $390 million from 2001. Absent the favorable effects of the $819 million intergroup tax settlements from Marathon in 2001 as described below, net cash provided from operating activities in 2002 reflected an improvement of $429 million from 2001. This improvement primarily resulted from higher net income, partially offset by increased working capital requirements primarily as a result of higher operating levels. Net cash provided from operating activities was $669 million in 2001, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $627 million in 2000. The significant improvement was primarily due to the receipt of favorable intergroup tax settlements from Marathon totaling $819 million in the 2001 period compared to a favorable intergroup settlement of $91 million in the 2000 period and the absence of $530 million of elective contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association ("VEBA") trust and to a non union retiree life insurance trust. The $819 million tax settlement is reflected in net cash provided by operating activities primarily as favorable working capital changes of $364 million related to the settlement of the income tax receivable established in 2000 arising from tax attributes primarily generated in the year 2000; increases in net income of $426 million for tax benefits generated by U. S. Steel in 2001; and net increases in all other items net of $15 million for state tax benefits generated in 2000. The last two items were included in the $441 million settlement with Marathon, which occurred in 2001 as a result of the Separation. Absent these intergroup tax settlements in 2001 and 2000 and the $530 million of elective contributions in 2000 to a VEBA trust and to a non union retiree life insurance trust, net cash used in operating activities decreased by $38 million. Cash payments of employee benefit liabilities were lower in 2001 because $152 million was paid from assets held in trust, compared to $41 million in 2000. This change was primarily the 38 result of approximately $112 million of funds from the VEBA trust being used to pay retiree medical and life insurance benefits for United Steelworkers of America ("USWA") retirees in 2001. In addition, working capital improved. These improvements were partially offset by decreased net income. Net cash used in operating activities in 2000 was $627 million and reflected the $500 million elective contribution to a VEBA trust, a $30 million elective contribution to a non union retiree life insurance trust and an income tax receivable from Marathon of $364 million. These unfavorable effects were partially offset by a $91 million income tax settlement with Marathon received in 2000 primarily for the year 1999 in accordance with the group tax allocation policy. The $500 million VEBA trust contribution has provided U. S. Steel with the flexibility to pay ongoing costs of providing USWA retiree health care and life insurance benefits from the VEBA trust instead of from corporate cash flow. At December 31, 2002, the Company had $195 million of the $500 million contribution remaining to offset future benefit payments and required VEBA contributions. U. S. Steel expects to use approximately $180 million of the remaining amount in 2003. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $258 million, including $97 million for USSK. Major projects in 2002 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Tubular and various projects at USSK, including continued work on the new tinning and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, completion of the scrap management and hot strip mill reheat furnace upgrade projects, commencement of work on a new dynamo line and installation of a vacuum degassing facility. Capital expenditures of $287 million in 2001 included exercising a buyout option of a lease for half of the Gary Works No. 2 Slab Caster; repairs to the No. 3 blast furnace at the Mon Valley Works; work on the No. 2 stove at the No. 6 blast furnace at Gary Works; the completion of the replacement coke battery thruwalls at Gary Works; the completion of an upgrade to the Mon Valley Works cold reduction mill; systems development projects; and projects at USSK, including the tin mill expansion and the vacuum degasser project. Capital expenditures of $244 million in 2000 included exercising an early buyout option of a lease for half of the Gary Works No. 2 Slab Caster; the continued replacement of coke battery thruwalls at Gary Works; installation of the remaining two coilers at the Gary Works hot strip mill; a blast furnace stove replacement at Gary Works; and the continuation of an upgrade to the Mon Valley Works cold reduction mill. U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2002, totaled $24 million compared with $28 million at December 31, 2001. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitments under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, were $541 million and $634 million, respectively. Capital expenditures for 2003 are expected to be approximately $350 million, including approximately $100 million for USSK. Major expenditures include completion of the installation of a new quench and temper line at Lorain Tubular; replacing the top stack on the Gary No. 8 blast furnace; and projects at USSK, including completion of the new tin and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, and continued work on the new dynamo line, which is scheduled to start up in 2004. The preceding statement concerning expected 2003 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of 39 completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. The acquisition of U. S. Steel Kosice consisted of cash payments of $38 million in 2002, $14 million in 2001 and net cash payments of $10 million in 2000, which reflected $69 million of cash payments less $59 million of cash acquired in the transaction. An additional payment of $38 million is to be made to VSZ in 2003 related to the purchase. The first quarter 2001 acquisition of East Chicago Tin and reorganization of Transtar were noncash transactions. See also Note 5 to the Financial Statements. Disposal of assets in 2002 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of U. S. Steels investment in stock of VSZ which was previously discussed, and the sale/leaseback of certain assets. Restricted cash deposits of $72 million in 2002 were mainly used to collateralize letters of credit to meet financial assurance requirements. Investees return of capital in 2001 of $13 million reflected a return of capital on the investment in stock of VSZ. Net change in attributed portion of Marathon consolidated debt and other financial obligations was a decrease of $74 million in 2001 compared to an increase of $1,208 million in 2000. The decrease in 2001 primarily reflected the net effects of cash provided from operating activities less cash used for investing activities and dividend payments. The increase in 2000 primarily reflected the net effects of cash used in operating activities, including a contribution to a VEBA trust, cash used in investing activities, dividend payments and preferred stock repurchases. Repayment of specifically attributed debt in 2001 of $370 million was primarily due to the termination and repayment of the accounts receivable facility, which was accounted for as secured borrowing and specifically attributed to U. S. Steel prior to the Separation. Settlement with Marathon of $54 million in 2002 reflected a cash payment made during the first quarter in accordance with the terms of the Separation. Repayment of long term debt in 2002 was mainly on the USSK loan. Common stock issued in 2002 reflected $192 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in May 2002, proceeds from stock sales to the United States Steel Corporation Savings Fund Plan for Salaried Employees and sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Dividends paid in 2002 were $19 million, compared with $57 million in 2001 and $97 million in 2000. Dividends paid in 2002 reflected the quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share established by U. S. Steel after the Separation, and effective with the March 2002 payment. Dividends paid in 2001 decreased $40 million from year 2000 due to a decrease in the quarterly dividend rate from $0.25 to $0.10 per share paid to USX U. S. Steel Group common stockholders, effective with the June 2001 payment. Dividends paid in 2001 and 2000 also included quarterly dividends on the 6.50% Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock that was retained and repaid by Marathon as part of the Separation. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see "Liquidity". 40  Debt and Convertible Preferred Shares Ratings On January 9, 2003, Standard & Poors Ratings Services placed its credit ratings for U. S. Steel on credit watch with negative implications. On the same day, Moodys Investors Service placed its ratings for U. S. Steel under review for possible downgrade and Fitch Ratings placed its ratings for U. S. Steel on rating watch negative. These actions followed U. S. Steels announced bid for certain assets of National Steel Corporation ("National"). For further discussion about the bid, see "Outlook for 2003". As of January 9, 2003, Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch Ratings have assigned BB, Ba3 and BB ratings, respectively, to U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt. As of February 13, 2003, Standard & Poors and Fitch Ratings have assigned B and B+ ratings, respectively, to U. S. Steels 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (liquidation preference $50 per share) ("Series B Preferred"). These shares were issued February 10, 2003. For further discussion, see "Liquidity". Liquidity In November 2001, U. S. Steel entered into a five year Receivables Purchase Agreement with financial institutions. U. S. Steel established a wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Receivables LLC ("USSR"), which is a consolidated special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity that acquires, on a daily basis, eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries. USSR can sell an undivided interest in these receivables to certain commercial paper conduits. USSR pays the conduits a discount based on the conduits borrowing costs plus incremental fees, certain of which are determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. Fundings under the facility are limited to the lesser of eligible receivables or $400 million. Eligible receivables exclude certain obligors, amounts in excess of defined percentages for certain obligors, and amounts past due or due beyond a defined period. In addition, eligible receivables are calculated by deducting certain reserves, which are based on various determinants including concentration, dilution and loss percentages, as well as the credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had $343 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. In addition, U. S. Steel entered into a three year revolving credit facility expiring December 31, 2004, that provides for borrowings of up to $400 million secured by all domestic inventory and related assets ("Inventory Facility"), including receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The amount outstanding under the Inventory Facility cannot exceed the permitted "borrowing base," calculated on percentages of the value of eligible inventory. Borrowings under the facility bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR or the prime rate plus an applicable margin determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2002, $397 million was available to U. S. Steel under the Inventory Facility. While the term of the Receivables Purchase Agreement is five years, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the Inventory Facility and other debt obligations, any failure of USSR to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables, and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 26, 2003. USSK has a $10 million short term credit facility and a $40 million long term credit facility. At December 31, 2002, $48 million was available under these facilities. On July 2, 2002, U. S. Steel initiated an exchange offer for the 103/4% Senior Notes due 2008 ("Senior Notes"). The offer expired on August 5, 2002, and 100 percent of the notes were tendered for exchange. The new notes received in the exchange are identical in all material aspects to the tendered 41 notes except that the new notes have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As of December 31, 2002, the aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes outstanding was $535 million. The Senior Notes impose limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indenture include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indenture. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the Senior Notes were issued, excluding up to $50 million of dividends paid on common stock through the end of 2003, cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100% of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the Senior Notes that was filed as Exhibit 4(f) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. As of December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had in excess of $90 million of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. Also, exclusive of any limitations imposed, U. S. Steel can make aggregate dividend payments of up to $50 million on common stock from the third quarter of 2001 through the end of 2003, of which U. S. Steel has paid $38 million as of December 31, 2002. In addition to the remaining $12 million available through the end of 2003, U. S. Steel has the ability to make other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2002, which could also be used for dividend payments. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on our ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. The Inventory Facility imposes additional restrictions on U. S. Steel including the following: effective September 30, 2002, U. S. Steel must meet an interest expense coverage ratio of at least 2 to 1 through March 30, 2003, and 2.5 to 1 thereafter, and a debt to EBITDA leverage ratio of no more than 6 to 1 through December 30, 2002, 5.5 to 1 through March 30, 2003, 5 to 1 through June 29, 2003, 4.5 to 1 through September 29, 2003, 4 to 1 through March 30, 2004, and 3.75 to 1 thereafter; limitations on capital expenditures; and restrictions on investments. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under our material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral, and it may also cause termination events to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon our financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2002. 42 On February 10, 2003, U. S. Steel sold 5 million shares of Series B Preferred. The company also granted the underwriters an over allotment option to purchase up to an additional 750,000 shares of Series B Preferred. The Series B Preferred were issued under outstanding universal shelf registration statements. Proceeds from the offering will be used for general corporate purposes, including funding working capital, financing potential acquisitions, debt reduction and voluntary contributions to employee benefit plans. Dividend payments related to the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred will be approximately $18 million per year. These dividends will be considered restricted payments under the Senior Note covenants described above; however, the amount U. S. Steel has available to make restricted payments increased by the $242 million of net proceeds received from the sale of the Series B Preferred. The number of common shares that could be issued upon conversion of the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million shares to 19.2 million shares, based upon the timing of the conversion and the market price of U. S. Steels common stock. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. The total amount of active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit currently being used for financial assurance purposes is approximately $144 million. Events over the last year have caused major changes in the surety bond market including significant increases in surety bond premiums and reduced market capacity. These factors, together with our non investment grade credit rating, have caused U. S. Steel to replace some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. During 2002, U. S. Steel used $65 million of liquidity sources to provide financial assurance and expects to use approximately $70 million of additional liquidity sources for these purposes in 2003. The very high property taxes at U. S. Steels Gary Works facility in Indiana continue to be detrimental to Gary Works competitive position, both when compared to competitors in Indiana and with other steel facilities in the United States and abroad. U. S. Steel is a party to several property tax disputes involving Gary Works, including claims for refunds of approximately $65 million pertaining to tax years 1994 96 and 1999 and assessments of approximately $110 million in excess of amounts paid for the 2000 and 2001 tax years. In addition, interest may be imposed upon any final assessment. The disputes involve property values and tax rates and are in various stages of administrative appeals. U. S. Steel is vigorously defending against the assessments and pursuing its claims for refunds. U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon in the amount of $168 million as of December 31, 2002. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as obligations relating to Industrial Development and Environmental Improvement Bonds and Notes in the amount of $471 million that were assumed by U. S. Steel from Marathon, may be declared immediately due and payable. If that occurs, U. S. Steel may not be able to satisfy such obligations. In addition, if Marathon loses its investment grade ratings, certain of these obligations will be considered indebtedness under the Senior Notes indenture and for covenant calculations under the Inventory Facility. This occurrence could prevent U. S. Steel from incurring additional indebtedness under the Senior Notes or may cause a default under the Inventory Facility. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2002: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 243 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 343 Amount available under Inventory Facility 397 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 48 Total estimated liquidity $ 1,031 43 The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2002, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flow in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2003 2004 through 2005 2006 through 2007 Beyond 2007 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,438 $ 26 $ 50 $ 61 $ 1,301 Operating leases(b) 499 82 165 86 166 Capital commitments(c) 565 14 10 241 300 Environmental commitments(c) 135 28 107 (d) Usher Separation bonus(c) 3 3 Additional consideration for USSK purchase(e) 38 38 Other post retirement benefits (f) 40 435 520 (f) Total contractual obligations (g) $ 228 $ 663 $ 908 (g) (a)See Note 11 to the Financial Statements. (b)See Note 17 to the Financial Statements. (c)See Note 25 to the Financial Statements. (d)Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (e)See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (f)U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the year 2003 through 2007 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the use of funds available from a VEBA trust. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or VEBA restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make an accurate prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g)Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligations are not estimable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 17 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. Preliminary funding valuations of the pension plan for union employees as of December 31, 2002, indicate that the plan will not require cash funding for the 2003 plan year. However, cash funding in 2004 and beyond for this pension plan could be required, the level of which depends upon various factors such as future asset performance, the level of interest rates used to measure ERISA minimum funding levels, the impacts of business acquisitions or sales, union negotiated changes and future government regulation. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. Any such funding requirements could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 12 to the Financial Statements. 44 The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2002, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flow in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2003 2004 through 2005 2006 through 2007 Beyond 2007 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 64 $ 50 $ 9 $ $ 5 (c) Surety bonds(a) 73 46 27 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 7 7 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 27 3 9 6 9 Contingent liabilities: Marathon obligations(a)(d) 168 29 39 41 59 Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 717 170 368 141 38 Total commercial commitments $ 1,206 $ 305 $ 425 $ 188 $ 288 (a)Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b)See Note 15 to the Financial Statements. (c)Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d)See Note 25 to the Financial Statements. (e)Reflects contractual purchase commitments ("take or pay" arrangements) primarily for purchases of substrate and certain energy sources. In October 2002, U. S. Steel granted an option to purchase its shares of VSZ. U. S. Steel subsequently sold these shares. Cash proceeds of $31 million were received in consideration for the option and the sale of the shares, which resulted in a pre tax gain of $20 million in the fourth quarter. U. S. Steel previously accounted for its investment in VSZ under the cost method. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of capital expenditures, debt service for outstanding financings, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings and other external financing sources. However, there is no assurance that our business will generate sufficient operating cash flow or that external financing sources will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. If there is a prolonged delay in the recovery of the manufacturing sector of the U.S. economy, U. S. Steel believes that it can maintain adequate liquidity through a combination of deferral of nonessential capital spending, sales of non strategic assets and other cash conservation measures. U. S. Steel managements opinion concerning liquidity and U. S. Steels ability to avail itself in the future of the financing options mentioned in the above forward looking statements are based on currently available information. To the extent that this information proves to be inaccurate, future availability of financing may be adversely affected. Factors that could affect the availability of financing include the performance of U. S. Steel (as measured by various factors including cash provided from operating activities), levels of inventories and accounts receivable, the state of worldwide debt and equity markets, investor perceptions and expectations of past and future performance, the overall U.S. financial climate, and, in particular, with respect to borrowings, the level of U. S. Steels outstanding debt and credit ratings by rating agencies. 45 Derivative Instruments See Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be adversely affected. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. USSK is subject to the laws of the Slovak Republic. The environmental laws of the Slovak Republic generally follow the requirements of the EU, which are comparable to domestic standards. USSK has also entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring, over time, its facilities into EU environmental compliance. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures for the last three years were(a): (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 2000 Domestic: Capital $ 4 $ 5 $ 18 Compliance Operating & maintenance 171 184 194 Remediation(b) 36 26 18 Total Domestic $ 211 $ 215 $ 230 USSK: Capital $ 10 $ 10 $ Compliance Operating & maintenance 8 6 Remediation 1 Total USSK $ 19 $ 16 $ Total U. S. Steel $ 230 $ 231 $ 230 (a)Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b)These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include noncash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. 46  U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 5% of total capital expenditures in 2002 and 2001, and 7% in 2000. Compliance expenditures represented 3% of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2002 and 2001, and 4% of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2000. Remediation spending during 2000 to 2002 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in a river that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. On October 23, 1998, a final Administrative Order on Consent was issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") addressing Corrective Action for Solid Waste Management Units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a RCRA Facility Investigation ("RFI") and a Corrective Measure Study ("CMS") at Gary Works. The Current Conditions Report, U. S. Steels first deliverable, was submitted to the EPA in January 1997 and was approved by the EPA in 1998. Phase I RFI work plans have been approved for the Coke Plant, the Process Sewers, and Background Soils at the site, along with the approval of one self implementing interim stabilization measure. Another eight Phase I RFI work plans have been submitted for EPA approval, thereby completing the Phase I requirement, along with two Phase II RFI work plans and one further self implementing interim stabilization measure. The costs of these studies are estimated to be $5.8 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property. The D2 disposal site and a nearby refuse area will be closed collectively. A Corrective Action Management Unit ("CAMU") for the West End Maintenance Area of Gary Works has been proposed that will include wastes from the D5 and T2 disposal sites. Total costs to close D2, D5, T2 and the refuse area are estimated to be $18.8 million. In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with the EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to the RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. The RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant. In December 1995, U. S. Steel reached an agreement in principle with the EPA and the U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") with respect to alleged RCRA violations at Fairfield Works. A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, the EPA and the DOJ and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel will pay a civil penalty of $1 million, implement two Supplemental Environmental Projects ("SEPs") costing a total of $1.75 million and implement a RCRA corrective action at the facility. One SEP was completed during 1998 at a cost of $250,000. The second SEP is under way. As of February 22, 2000, the Alabama Department of Environmental Management assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of the EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved for the 47 site on September 16, 2002. Field sampling for the work plan commenced immediately after approval and will continue through the end of 2003. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $657,000. U. S. Steel has been notified that it is a potentially responsible party ("PRP") at 21 waste sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") as of December 31, 2002. In addition, there are 13 sites related to U. S. Steel where it has received information requests or other indications that it may be a PRP under CERCLA but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or make any judgment as to the amount thereof. There are also 37 additional sites related to U. S. Steel where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. At many of these sites, U. S. Steel is one of a number of parties involved and the total cost of remediation, as well as U. S. Steels share thereof, is frequently dependent upon the outcome of investigations and remedial studies. U. S. Steel accrues for environmental remediation activities when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. As environmental remediation matters proceed toward ultimate resolution or as additional remediation obligations arise, charges in excess of those previously accrued may be required. See Note 25 to the Financial Statements. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management ("IDEM") acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The public trustees completed a pre assessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have determined to perform a Natural Resource Damages Assessment. U. S. Steel was identified as a PRP along with 15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. U. S. Steel and eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The trustees notified the public of their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. In 2000, the trustees concluded their assessment of sediment injuries, which included a technical review of environmental conditions. The PRP joint defense group has proposed terms for the settlement of this claim, which have been endorsed by representatives of the trustees and the EPA to be included in a consent decree that U. S. Steel expects will resolve this claim. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs, and obtained an 8 acre parcel of land that has been transferred to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for addition to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Park owned by the National Park Service. No formal legal proceedings have been filed in this matter. On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by the EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX Corporation, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollution Discharge Elimination System ("NPDES") permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves potential liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. In 1999, U. S. Steel paid civil penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs. In addition, U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future monitoring costs and U. S. Steel is obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been or will be conveyed to the trustees. During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with the EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with the NPDES requirements. As of December 31, 2002, the sediment remediation project is an approved final interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works. As of December 31, 2002, project costs have amounted to $29.1 million with another $14.2 million presently projected to complete the project, over the next 12 months. 48 Construction began in January 2002 on a CAMU to contain the dredged material. The Toxic Substances Control Act unit within the CAMU is complete; the remaining construction was completed in February 2003. Phase 1 removal of PCB contaminated sediment was conducted in December 2002. Dredging resumed in February 2003 and will continue until dredging on the river is concluded, which is expected to occur in October 2003. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $4.9 million. At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $12.1 million through 2002. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. The EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the other sites on the EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Additional study and oversight costs through 2003 are estimated at $765,000. In 1997, USS/Kobe, a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. ("Kobe"), was the subject of a multi media audit by the EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. USS/Kobe and the EPA entered into a tolling agreement pending issuance of the final audit and commenced settlement negotiations in July 1999. In August 1999, the steelmaking and bar producing operations of USS/Kobe were combined with companies controlled by Blackstone Capital Partners II to form Republic. The tubular operations of USS/Kobe were transferred to a newly formed entity, Lorain Tubular Company, LLC ("Lorain Tubular"), which operated as a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe until December 31, 1999, when U. S. Steel purchased all of Kobes interest in Lorain Tubular. Republic and U. S. Steel are continuing negotiations with the EPA. Most of the matters raised by the EPA relate to Republics facilities; however, air discharges from U. S. Steels No. 3 seamless pipe mill have also been cited. U. S. Steel will be responsible for matters relating to its facilities. The final report and citations from the EPA have not been issued. On February 12, 1987, U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources ("PADER") entered into a Consent Order to resolve an incident in January 1985 involving the alleged unauthorized discharge of benzene and other organic pollutants from Clairton Works in Clairton, Pa. That Consent Order required U. S. Steel to pay a penalty of $50,000 and a monthly payment of $2,500 for five years. In 1990, U. S. Steel and the PADER reached agreement to amend the Consent Order. Under the amended Order, U. S. Steel agreed to remediate the Peters Creek Lagoon, a former coke plant waste disposal site; to pay a penalty of $300,000; and to pay a monthly penalty of up to $1,500 each month until the former disposal site is closed. Remediation costs have amounted to $10.2 million with another $1.4 million presently projected to complete the project. In 1988, U. S. Steel and two other PRPs (Bethelehem Steel Corporation and William Fiore) agreed to the issuance of an administrative order by the EPA to undertake emergency removal work at the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth Township, Pa. The cost of such removal, which has been completed, was approximately $4.2 million, of which U. S. Steel paid $3.4 million. The EPA indicated that further remediation of this site would be required. In October 1991, the PADER placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation, which was issued in 1997. After a feasibility study by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection ("PADEP") and submission of a conceptual remediation plan in 2001 by U. S. Steel, U. S. Steel submitted a revised conceptual remedial action plan on May 31, 2002. U. S. Steel and PADEP signed a consent decree on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. This consent decree has been noticed for public comments. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $6.8 million. 49 In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, N.C. fertilizer manufacturing site. The site was owned by Armour Agriculture Chemical Company (now named Viad) from 1912 to 1968. U. S. Steel owned the site from 1968 to 1986 and sold the site to LaRoche Industries in 1986. The agreed order allocated responsibility for assessment and cleanup costs as follows: Viad 48%, U. S. Steel 26% and LaRoche 26%; and LaRoche was appointed to be the lead party responsible for conducting the cleanup. In March 2001, U. S. Steel was notified that LaRoche had filed for protection under the bankruptcy law. On August 23, 2001, the allocation of responsibility for this site assessment and cleanup and the cost allocation was approved by the bankruptcy court in the LaRoche bankruptcy. The estimated remediation costs are $4.4 million to $5.7 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $1.6 million. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2003. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $28 million in 2003 primarily related to projects at USSK (approximately $16 million), Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Predictions beyond 2003 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $68 million in 2004 including $55 million for USSK; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel has been and is a defendant in a large number of cases in which approximately 14,000 claimants actively allege injury resulting from exposure to asbestos. Nearly all of these cases involve multiple defendants. These claims fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime law by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who performed work at U. S. Steel facilities; and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to an electrical cable product formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. To date, all actions resolved have been either dismissed or settled for immaterial amounts. In 2002, U. S. Steel disposed of claims from approximately 1,700 claimants with aggregate total payments of approximately $700,000 and over 4,700 cases were administratively dismissed. It is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of these matters; however, based upon present knowledge, management believes that it is unlikely that the resolution of the pending actions will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Among the factors that management considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the last 12 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the claimants to present any medical evidence supporting their claims, (2) that over the last several years the total number of pending claims has remained steady, (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured electrical cable and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals. This statement of belief is a forward looking statement. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual 50 and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in this forward looking statement. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 25 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. Outlook for 2003 Looking ahead, a loss from operations and a net loss are expected for the first quarter of 2003. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2002, pension and other benefit costs will increase by approximately $50 million and natural gas costs will be substantially higher. Although the fourth quarter included approximately $30 million for blast furnace outages, the first quarter will have normal negative seasonal effects related to iron ore and transportation operations. Shipments for the Flat rolled segment in the 2003 first quarter are expected to be in line with fourth quarter levels; however, product mix is expected to be less favorable as a result of planned slab sales and natural gas costs will be substantially higher. For full year 2003, Flat rolled shipments are expected to approximate 10.0 million net tons. For the Tubular segment, first quarter 2003 shipments are projected to be moderately higher than in the 2002 fourth quarter, and the average realized price is expected to be lower than in the fourth quarter. Shipments for full year 2003 are expected to be approximately 1.1 million net tons, as higher energy prices should spur a recovery in North American drilling activity in the second half of 2003. USSKs first quarter 2003 shipments are expected to increase slightly from the 2002 fourth quarter, and shipments for the full year are projected to be approximately 4.1 million net tons. USSKs average realized price in the first quarter should improve from the fourth quarter due primarily to a January 1, 2003, price increase of 20 euros per metric ton for all flat rolled products. A price increase of at least $30 per net ton has been announced for new oil country tubular goods orders for shipment after March 1, 2003. In addition, a price increase of $30 per ton was announced for new domestic sheet orders for shipment March 30, 2003 and later. Also, USSK announced a minimum price increase of 20 euros per metric ton for all shipments April 1, 2003 and later. Beginning in March 2002 and continuing throughout the year, USSK entered into various commercial arrangements with Sartid, an integrated steel company with facilities located in Smederevo and Sabac in the Republic of Serbia. Tolling agreements provide for the conversion of cold rolled full hard into tin coated products, and raw materials into hot rolled bands and other finished products. USSK retains ownership of these materials and markets all of the finished products. A facility management agreement requires USSK to provide management oversight of Sartids tin processing facilities in Sabac. On July 30, 2002, Sartid was placed into bankruptcy and shortly thereafter the bankruptcy administrator affirmed USSKs agreements with Sartid. At the request of the bankruptcy administrator, a Commercial and Technical Support Agreement was entered into on November 8, 2002, between USSK and the bankruptcy administrator, under which USSK has been retained to provide commercial, technical and financial support as necessary to assist the bankruptcy administrator in the operation of the Smederevo Facility. 51 In addition, U. S. Steel continues to explore possibilities for involvement in the restructuring of Sartid. Sartids steel production has averaged 500,000 tons per year during the past two years, which is substantially below design capacity due to Sartids financial difficulties. U. S. Steel believes that with needed rehabilitation and investments, Sartids long term raw steelmaking capability could be increased to slightly more than 2 million tons per year. Sartid primarily produces sheet products and its tinning facility has an annual capability of 130,000 tons. On April 10, 2002, U. S. Steel announced that it had signed a letter of intent to sell all of the coal and related assets associated with U. S. Steel Mining Companys West Virginia and Alabama mines. U. S. Steel and the purchaser continue discussions. U. S. Steel anticipates that the sale will generate proceeds of approximately $50 million and will result in a pre tax gain, excluding the recognition of the present value of obligations related to a multiemployer health care benefit plan created by the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992. The recognition of these obligations, which were broadly estimated to be $76 million at December 31, 2002, will be required when U. S. Steel exits the coal mining business and would result in an extraordinary loss of approximately $50 million on an after tax basis. On October 16, 2002, U. S. Steel announced that it had signed a letter of intent to sell its raw materials and transportation businesses to an entity to be formed by affiliates of Apollo Management, L.P. On February 10, 2003, U. S. Steel announced that it would suspend taking further actions relative to the sale of steel related assets with USWA representation, including the previously announced letter of intent to sell its raw materials and transportation units, pending labor negotiations with the USWA that are described below. On January 9, 2003, U. S. Steel announced that it had signed an Asset Purchase Agreement ("APA") with National to acquire substantially all of Nationals steelmaking and finishing assets for approximately $950 million, which includes the assumption of liabilities of approximately $200 million. Management believes that the acquisition of National would significantly increase U. S. Steels value added production capabilities and enhance U. S. Steels ability to serve the needs of North American customers in the automotive, container, appliance and construction industries. The closing of the agreement with National was contingent on, among other things, the approval of the Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, and the execution and ratification of a new labor agreement with the USWA with respect to the steelworkers at the National facilities to be acquired. On January 30, 2003, National announced that it had signed an agreement with another party, under which National would sell substantially all of its assets, including its pellet making facility, for $1,125 million, consisting of cash and the assumption of approximately $200 million of liabilities. The closing of the agreement between National and the other party is contingent on, among other things, the approval of the Bankruptcy Court and the execution and ratification of a new labor agreement with the USWA with respect to the steelworkers at the National facilities to be acquired. The U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Chicago established an auction period for National Steels assets that began on February 6, 2003, and will end on April 7, 2003. On February 10, 2003, U. S. Steel announced that it would immediately begin bargaining with the USWA to reach a new, progressive labor contract covering facilities now owned by bankrupt National as well as the USWA represented plants of U. S. Steel. U. S. Steel remains interested in acquiring the assets of National if it is able to reach a new labor agreement with the USWA for the steelworkers at the National facilities and acquire the assets at a price that it views to be appropriate in light of conditions in the steel and financial markets at the time of the auction. U. S. Steel is in discussions with the USWA regarding such a labor agreement, as well as other matters, including our mutual interest in encouraging consolidation in the North American integrated steel industry. U. S. Steel also 52 continues to evaluate other potential domestic acquisitions. Management cannot assure that U. S. Steel will participate in or prevail at the auction for Nationals assets. On February 10, 2003, U. S. Steel submitted an indicative, non binding proposal to the Government of Poland for the purchase of Polskie Huty Stali S.A. ("PHS"), the government owned steel company. In accordance with its confidentiality agreement with the Polish Government, U. S. Steel did not disclose the terms of its offer. On February 18, 2003, U. S. Steel was advised that it had been admitted to the next round of the privatization process. The Polish Government has indicated its desire to complete the privatization by September 30, 2003. Earlier this year four of Polands steel mills, including the two largest integrated facilities, were consolidated under PHS, which currently has annual raw steel production capability of approximately 9.0 million tons. PHSs steelmaking capability is expected to be reduced as a result of negotiations related to Polands accession into the EU. PHS primarily produces blooms, rails, wire and other long products, as well as plate and sheet products. In line with U. S. Steels strategy to dispose of non strategic assets, management is also considering conveying certain timber properties to one or more employee benefit plans. Based on preliminary actuarial information for 2003, the company expects annual net periodic pension costs to be $65 million and annual retiree medical and life insurance costs to be $203 million, excluding multiemployer plans. Since the expected return on assets component of net periodic cost is based upon a market related value that recognizes changes in fair value over three years, net periodic pension costs will also be progressively higher in 2004 and 2005. In 2002, U. S. Steel recorded a credit of $103 million for pensions (excluding settlement charges of $100 million) and a $138 million expense for retiree medical and life insurance (excluding multiemployer plans). Pension costs are expected to increase from 2002 primarily because of lower plan assets, average asset return assumptions that have been reduced from 8.8 percent to 8.2 percent, and a discount rate that has been reduced from 7.0 percent to 6.25 percent. The anticipated increase in retiree medical and life insurance costs primarily reflects unfavorable health care claims cost experience in 2002 for union retirees, the use of the lower discount rate and higher assumed medical cost inflation. For 2003, a 10% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits has been assumed. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75% for 2010 and remain at that level thereafter. As a result of the above factors and payments made in 2002 from benefit plans, U. S. Steels underfunded benefit obligations for retiree medical and life insurance increased from $1.8 billion at year end 2001 to $2.6 billion at year end 2002. Also, the funded status of the projected pension benefit obligation declined from an overfunded position of $1.2 billion at year end 2001 to an underfunded position of $0.4 billion at year end 2002. This annual report contains forward looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments and prices, potential asset dispositions and potential acquisitions. Some factors, among others, that could affect 2003 market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both domestic operations and USSK include product demand, prices and mix, global and company steel production levels, plant operating performance, the timing and completion of facility projects, natural gas prices and usage, changes in environmental, tax and other laws, the resumption of operation of steel facilities sold under the bankruptcy laws, and U.S. and European economic performance and political developments. Domestic steel shipments and prices could be affected by import levels and actions taken by the U.S. Government and its agencies. Additional factors that may affect USSKs results are foreign currency fluctuations and political factors in Europe that include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures. Consummation of the asset dispositions will depend upon a number of factors including negotiation of definitive agreements; regulatory approvals, including Department of Labor approvals for the conveyances to the benefit plans; and the ability of the purchasers to arrange financing. Factors that may impact the occurrence and timing of the 53 acquisition of Nationals steelmaking and finishing assets include the negotiation of a new labor agreement between U. S. Steel and the United Steelworkers of America covering employees of the National facilities, receipt of necessary clearances from the Federal Trade Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act, approval by the Surface Transportation Board under the Surface Transportation Act for the acquisition of the Delray Connecting Railroad Company, the absence of any injunctions blocking the acquisition, and the results of the auction process contemplated in Nationals bankruptcy court filing. Accounting Standards On January 1, 2002, U. S. Steel adopted SFAS No. 141 "Business Combinations," No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" and No. 144 "Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." There was no financial statement implication related to the initial adoption of these Statements. For more information see Note 4 to the Financial Statements. On April 30, 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections." Generally, SFAS No. 145 is effective for transactions occurring after May 15, 2002. There was no financial statement implication related to the adoption of this Statement. For more information see Note 4 to the Financial Statements. The adoption of these Statements has not affected U. S. Steels critical accounting estimates. In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143 "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS No. 143 establishes a new accounting model for the recognition and measurement of retirement obligations associated with tangible long lived assets. SFAS No. 143 requires that an asset retirement obligation should be capitalized as part of the cost of the related long lived asset and subsequently allocated to expense using a systematic and rational method. U. S. Steel adopted this Statement effective January 1, 2003. The transition adjustment of less than $15 million, net of tax, resulting from the adoption of SFAS No. 143 will be reported as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in the first quarter of 2003. SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" was issued in July 2002. SFAS No. 146 addresses significant issues regarding the recognition, measurement, and reporting of costs that are associated with exit and disposal activities, including restructuring activities. The scope of SFAS No. 146 includes (1) costs to terminate contracts that are not capital leases; (2) costs to consolidate facilities or relocate employees; and (3) termination benefits provided to employees who are involuntarily terminated under the terms of a one time benefit arrangement that is not an ongoing benefit arrangement or an individual deferred compensation contract. The provisions of this Statement will be effective for exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others." The Interpretation elaborates on the disclosure to be made by a guarantor about obligations under certain guarantees that it has issued. It also clarifies that at the inception of a guarantee, the company must recognize liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. The initial recognition and measurement provisions apply on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements have been adopted for the 2002 annual financial statements (See Note 25 to the Financial Statements). U. S. Steel will apply the remaining provisions of the Interpretation prospectively as required. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure," which amends SFAS No. 123. SFAS No. 148 provides 54 alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. In addition, SFAS No. 148 amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require more prominent and more frequent disclosures in financial statements about the effects of stock based compensation. The Company has adopted the annual disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 and will adopt the interim provisions effective with the first quarter of 2003. The Company is not changing to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation; therefore, the transition provisions are not applicable. FASB Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," was issued in January 2003 and addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that do not have sufficient equity investment to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. This Interpretation requires consolidation of a variable interest entity by the primary beneficiary and requires certain disclosures by the primary and other significant beneficiaries. The provisions of this Interpretation apply immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003, and to variable interest entities in which a company obtains an interest after that date. It applies for the interim period beginning after June 15, 2003, for variable interest entities in which a company holds a variable interest that it acquired before February 1, 2003. The Interpretation may be applied prospectively with a cumulative effect adjustment as of the date of first application or by restating previously issued financial statements for one or more years with a cumulative effect adjustment as of the beginning of the first year restated. If it is reasonably possible that an enterprise will consolidate or disclose information about a variable interest entity when this Interpretation becomes effective, the company must make certain disclosures in all financial statements initially issued after January 31, 2003, regardless of the date on which the variable interest entity was created. U. S. Steel is in the process of assessing the appropriate application of this Interpretation. 55 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas, heating oil and nonferrous metals and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. To a lesser extent, U. S. Steel is exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal and coke and the purchase of natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pre tax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Decrease of(a) 2002 2001 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Zinc 2.8 7.0 3.5 8.9 Tin 0.5 1.2 0.2 0.6 (a)With the adoption of SFAS No. 133, the definition of a derivative instrument has been expanded to include certain fixed price physical commodity contracts. Such instruments are included in the above table. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001. Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2002, may cause future pre tax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. 56 U. S. Steel recorded net pre tax losses on other than trading activity of $6 million in 2002, losses of $13 million in 2001 and gains of $2 million in 2000. These gains and losses were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For additional quantitative information relating to derivative commodity instruments, see Note 23 to the Financial Statements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2002 and 2001 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2002 2001 Incremental Increase in Fair Value(c) Incremental Increase in Fair Value(c) As of December 31 Fair Value(b) Fair Value(b) Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 45 $ $ 42 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f) $ 1,165 $ 72 $ 1,122 $ 79 (a)Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b)See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c)Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10% decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001. (d)For additional information, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. (e)Includes amounts due within one year. (f)Fair value was based on market prices where available, or current borrowing rates for financings with similar terms and maturities. For additional information, see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steels portfolio of long term debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $72 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSK, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro and Slovak koruna. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollar (total notional value of approximately $15.0 million) and Slovak koruna (total 57 notional value of approximately $26.6 million). A 10% increase in the December 31, 2002 euro forward rates would result in an additional $4.2 million charge to income. Equity Price Risk On October 9, 2002, U. S. Steel sold its investment in VSZ. Prior to that time, U. S. Steel was subject to equity price risk and market liquidity risk related to that investment. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 58  
 
