Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For additional factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Introduction U. S. Steel is an integrated steel producer with major production operations in the United States and Central Europe. An integrated producer uses iron ore and coke as primary raw materials for steel production. U. S. Steel has domestic annual raw steel production capability of 19.4 million net tons (tons) and Central European annual raw steel production capability of 7.4 million tons. U. S. Steel is also engaged in several other business activities, most of which are related to steel manufacturing. These include the production of iron ore pellets from taconite (rock containing iron) in the United States and the production of coke in both the United States and Central Europe; transportation services (railroad and barge operations); real estate operations and engineering and consulting services. In 2004, U. S. Steel concentrated on successfully integrating the businesses acquired in 2003 (discussed below), improving its balance sheet, increasing liquidity and continuing to strengthen its core steel businesses in order to be better positioned for further expansion and continued improvements to its existing facilities. An equity offering of 8 million common shares was completed in March 2004 for net proceeds of $294 million, which were primarily used to redeem certain senior notes. In April 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of its 10 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of its 9 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. In addition, U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK) retired $281 million of long term debt in 2004. Also during 2004, U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan and $30 million to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In October 2004, U. S. Steels $600 million revolving credit facility was amended and restated to: 1) extend the maturity to October 2009, 2) increase the borrowing base, 3) reduce the pricing for both borrowings and undrawn commitments, and 4) limit the application of many of the restrictive covenants. In February 2004, U. S. Steel continued to divest its non core assets when it sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. In 2003, U. S. Steel engaged in several significant transactions aimed at strengthening its core steel businesses. On May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy substantially all of the integrated steelmaking assets of National Steel Corporation (National). See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. The facilities that were acquired included two integrated steel plants, Granite City Works in Granite City, Illinois, and Great Lakes Works in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan; the Midwest Plant in Portage, Indiana; ProCoil Company LLC (ProCoil) in Canton, Michigan; a 50 percent equity interest in Double G Coatings Company, L.P. (Double G) near Jackson, Mississippi; the iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota (Keetac); and the Delray Connecting Railroad Company (Delray) in Michigan. In connection with the acquisition of National, U. S. Steel negotiated a collective bargaining agreement with the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) that is substantially different from historical contracts with the USWA. This innovative agreement, which expires in September 2008, covers both U. S. Steel and former National employees and provides U. S. Steel the flexibility to staff and operate its domestic facilities on a world competitive basis. On September 12, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy Sartid a.d. (In Bankruptcy), an integrated steel company located in the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Sartid). U. S. Steel is operating these facilities as U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB). See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. On June 30, 2003, U. S. Steel completed the sale of its coal mines and related assets (Mining Sale). As a result, U. S. Steel no longer mines any coal. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale. 4 Table of Contents In a non monetary transaction in November 2003, U. S. Steels plate mill at Gary Works was exchanged for a pickling line located in East Chicago, Indiana. This was U. S. Steels only plate mill; however, U. S. Steel still produces plate in coil on its hot strip mills at Gary Works and at its European operations. In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. Straightline Source (Straightline), a steel distribution business, was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. Segments During 2004, U. S. Steel had four reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE), Tubular Products (Tubular) and Real Estate. As of January 1, 2004, the residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. The application of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, resulted in U. S. Steel consolidating the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. (1314B Partnership) effective January 1, 2004. The results of the 1314B Partnership, which are included in the Flat rolled segment, were previously accounted for under the equity method. For further information, see Notes 4 and 18 to the Financial Statements. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the service centers, conversion, transportation (including automotive), containers, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G, which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with Sartid. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service centers, appliance, containers, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld (ERW) tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed and developed for sale or lease. In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. In February 2004, U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. Prior to the disposition of these assets, results they generated were reported in the Real Estate segment. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services, and engineering and consulting services. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of Keetac and Delray, which were acquired from National. Prior to the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer value for rounds supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and the transfer value of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs. 5 Table of Contents Revenues by Product The following table sets forth the total revenues and other income of U. S. Steel by major product group for each of the last three years. Revenues and other income (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003(a) 2002 Revenues by product: Flat rolled steel products $ 11,549 $ 7,372 $ 5,115 Tubular 1,042 626 555 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore)(b) 705 419 513 Other(c) 673 911 766 Income (loss) from investees 57 (11 ) 33 Net gains on disposal of assets 57 85 29 Other income 25 56 43 Total revenues and other income $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Revenue from the sale of coal ceased with the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003. Includes revenue from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. Included revenue from steel mill products distribution prior to January 1, 2004, when the residual results of Straightline were included in Flat rolled; and revenue from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. 6 Table of Contents Steel Shipments by Segment and Product The following tables set forth steel shipment data for U. S. Steel by segment and product for 2004, 2003 and 2002. Such data does not include shipments by joint ventures and other equity investees of U. S. Steel for all three years or shipments from Straightline for 2003 and 2002. (Thousands of Tons) Flat rolled USSE Tubular Total Product 2004 Hot rolled Sheets 5,164 2,215 7,379 Cold rolled Sheets 4,587 1,172 5,759 Coated Sheets 4,286 396 4,682 Tin Mill Products 1,443 510 1,953 Tubular 158 1,092 1,250 Semi finished and Plates 155 589 744 TOTAL 15,635 5,040 1,092 21,767 Product 2003 Hot rolled Sheets 4,495 1,777 6,272 Cold rolled Sheets 4,072 1,221 5,293 Coated Sheets 3,215 383 3,598 Tin Mill Products 1,105 320 1,425 Tubular 145 882 1,027 Semi finished and Plates 630 1,003 1,633 TOTAL 13,517 4,849 882 19,248 Product 2002 Hot rolled Sheets 2,818 1,392 4,210 Cold rolled Sheets 3,720 1,017 4,737 Coated Sheets 2,056 348 2,404 Tin Mill Products 822 195 1,017 Tubular 137 773 910 Semi finished and Plates 484 912 1,396 TOTAL 9,900 4,001 773 14,674 7 Table of Contents Steel Shipments by Segment and Market The following tables set forth steel shipment data for U. S. Steel by segment and major market for 2004, 2003 and 2002. Such data does not include shipments by joint ventures and other equity investees of U. S. Steel for all three years or shipments from Straightline for 2003 and 2002. No single customer accounted for more than 10 percent of gross annual revenues; however, Tubular has a customer that accounts for more than 10 percent of its segment revenues. (Thousands of Tons) Flat rolled USSE Tubular Total Major Market 2004 Steel Service Centers 4,270 1,050 6 5,326 Further Conversion: Trade Customers 1,952 1,060 1 3,013 Joint Ventures 2,017 2,017 Transportation (Including Automotive) 2,557 314 2 2,873 Containers 1,361 456 1,817 Construction and Construction Products 1,774 1,090 2,864 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 40 987 1,027 Export 531 96 627 All Other 1,173 1,030 2,203 TOTAL 15,635 5,040 1,092 21,767 Major Market 2003 Steel Service Centers 4,165 797 9 4,971 Further Conversion: Trade Customers 1,526 1,293 50 2,869 Joint Ventures 1,728 12 1,740 Transportation (Including Automotive) 2,151 359 2 2,512 Containers 1,092 359 1,451 Construction and Construction Products 1,309 1,226 2,535 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 32 40 692 764 Export 484 129 613 All Other 1,030 763 1,793 TOTAL 13,517 4,849 882 19,248 Major Market 2002 Steel Service Centers 2,662 613 11 3,286 Further Conversion: Trade Customers 1,276 1,056 35 2,367 Joint Ventures 1,550 20 1,570 Transportation (Including Automotive) 1,217 263 5 1,485 Containers 863 289 1,152 Construction and Construction Products 880 1,068 1,948 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 58 32 589 679 Export 369 132 501 All Other 1,025 660 1 1,686 TOTAL 9,900 4,001 773 14,674 8 Table of Contents Business Strategy U. S. Steels strategy is based on the stated aspiration that U. S. Steel will be a conservative, responsible company that generates a competitive return on capital and meets its financial and stakeholder obligations. Within this value framework, the following outlines U. S. Steels business strategy. U. S. Steels business strategy is to continue to grow its investment in high end finishing assets, expand its global business platform, reduce its costs and become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets where management believes that U. S. Steels leadership position, production and processing capabilities and technical service provide a competitive advantage. These products include advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets for the construction industry, improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods. U. S. Steel continues to enhance its value added businesses through the upgrading and modernization of its key production facilities. As previously mentioned, on May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired substantially all of the integrated steelmaking assets of National. U. S. Steel continues to be interested in participating in further consolidation of the North American steel industry if it would be beneficial to customers, shareholders, creditors and employees. U. S. Steel conducted due diligence in relation to the potential purchase of Stelco Inc., a Canadian steel producer, but ultimately decided not to pursue an acquisition. Through its November 2000 purchase of USSK in Slovakia, U. S. Steel initiated a major offshore expansion into the European market. U. S. Steel extended its presence in Central Europe in 2003 with the acquisition on September 12, 2003 of USSB. U. S. Steel continues to explore additional opportunities for steel and raw materials investments in Europe. U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading European steel producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing European markets, to grow its customer base in Europe by providing reliable delivery of high quality steel and to invest in value added facilities, including a planned automotive hot dip galvanizing line, to improve USSEs product mix. Expansion opportunities in Europe and North America would be attractive to U. S. Steel. South America, China and India are also possible areas of interest. While U. S. Steel has recently pursued expansion through 100 percent acquisition, U. S. Steel may also participate in future expansion through joint ventures, acquisitions of less than 100 percent equity interests and other means. U. S. Steel has a commitment to continuously reduce costs. The National acquisition and the 2003 labor agreements with the USWA covering all of U. S. Steels domestic production facilities provided U. S. Steel with an opportunity to achieve a major reduction in the cost structure of its domestic business. Total savings from National operational synergies, workforce reductions at both U. S. Steel and former National plants, and administrative cost reduction programs have exceeded $400 million in annual repeatable cost savings. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions regarding future cost savings are subject to uncertainties. Factors that may affect the amount of cost savings include the possibility that U. S. Steel may need more employees than anticipated to operate its business and managements ability to implement and maintain its cost reduction strategy. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel has also entered into a number of joint ventures with domestic and international partners to take advantage of market or manufacturing opportunities in the sheet, tin mill and plate consuming industries. Steel Industry Background and Competition The steel industry is cyclical and highly competitive and has been characterized by excess world supply, which has restricted the ability of U. S. Steel and the industry to raise prices during periods of economic growth and resist price decreases during periods of economic contraction. In 2004, worldwide supply and demand were more in balance and supply was constrained by the availability of raw materials leading to substantial price increases. 9 Table of Contents Supply and demand relationships worldwide are heavily influenced by supply and demand in China. The steel industry faces competition in many markets from producers of materials such as aluminum, cement, composites, glass, plastics and wood. U. S. Steel is the second largest integrated steel producer in North America and, through USSK and USSB, one of the largest integrated flat rolled producers in Central Europe. U. S. Steel competes with many domestic and foreign steel producers. Competitors include integrated producers which, like U. S. Steel, use iron ore and coke as primary raw materials for steel production, and mini mills, which primarily use steel scrap and, increasingly, iron bearing feedstocks as raw materials. Mini mills typically enjoy certain competitive advantages in the markets in which they compete through lower capital expenditures for construction of facilities and non unionized work forces with lower total employment costs. Some mini mills utilize thin slab casting technology to produce flat rolled products and are increasingly able to compete directly with integrated producers of flat rolled products. Depending on market conditions, including market conditions for steel scrap, the production generated by flat rolled mini mills could have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels selling prices and shipment levels. Due primarily to growth in worldwide steel production, especially in China, prices for steelmaking commodities such as steel scrap, coal, coke and iron ore escalated to unprecedented levels in 2004 and remain at these levels. U. S. Steels balanced domestic raw materials position and limited dependence on steel scrap has helped the competitive position of U. S. Steels domestic operations. The domestic steel industry has been under pressure for many years. Oversupply and low prices, which were attributable largely to excess imports, resulted in significant temporary or permanent capacity closures starting in late 2000. Numerous bankruptcies created many opportunities for consolidation and the domestic steel industry has been significantly restructured over the last few years. Domestic and global consolidation is expected to continue. The combination of capacity closures, consolidation and the increase in global demand for steel led to a recovery of steel prices from 20 year lows in late 2001 and early 2002 to all time highs in 2004. The trade remedies announced by President Bush on March 5, 2002, under Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974, were removed by executive proclamation effective December 5, 2003, prior to running their full term of three years. Upon announcing termination of the Section 201 relief, the administration committed to continuing and improving a steel import monitoring system that will assist the domestic steel industry in identifying steel import problems in a timely manner. The negative impact of removing the tariffs has been mitigated by a number of factors including the relative value of the dollar, significant increases in ocean freight rates and the increase in the global demand for steel; however, imports have increased significantly in the past several months compared to 2003 and early 2004. Despite the decline in December, total sheet imports in the fourth quarter of 2004 increased by almost 200 percent from the same quarter of 2003 and by almost 140 percent from the first quarter of 2004. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 26 percent of the domestic steel market in the first 11 months of 2004, compared to 19 percent in 2003 and 26 percent in 2002. The U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) are currently conducting five year sunset reviews of trade relief granted in 1999 regarding hot rolled flat steel products. In these proceedings, the agencies will determine whether the following should remain in efffect: anti dumping orders against product from Brazil and Japan, a suspension agreement pertaining to dumped product from Russia and a countervailing duty order against product from Brazil. The DOC has completed its investigations, finding that dumping or illegal subsidization, as the case may be, would be likely to continue or recur if any of these orders or the suspension agreement is revoked. The ITC will hold a hearing in March 2005 and thereafter decide whether injury to the domestic industry would be likely to continue or recur if any of the orders or the suspension agreement is revoked. The Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development announced on June 29, 2004, that it was postponing until 2005 discussions aimed at the reduction and elimination of government investment in and support for steelmaking. U. S. Steel will monitor imports closely and file anti dumping and countervailing duty petitions if unfairly traded imports adversely impact, or threaten to adversely impact, financial results. U. S. Steels domestic businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, emission and discharge of environmentally sensitive materials. U. S. Steel believes that its 10 Table of Contents major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. U. S. Steel has approximately 48,000 active employees worldwide and provides defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits to approximately 84,000 retirees. Domestic integrated producers that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings and mini mills do not have comparable fixed retiree obligations. USSK and USSB conduct business primarily in Central and Western Europe and are subject to market conditions in those areas which are influenced by many of the same factors that affect domestic markets, as well as matters peculiar to international markets such as quotas and tariffs. USSK and USSB are affected by the worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the cyclical nature of demand for steel products and the sensitivity of that demand to worldwide general economic conditions. In particular, USSK and USSB are subject to economic conditions, environmental regulations and political factors in Europe, which if changed could negatively affect results of operations and cash flow. These economic conditions, environmental regulations and political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions (see Environmental Matters for a discussion regarding carbon dioxide emissions limits, which are applicable to European Union (EU) member countries), and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSK and USSB are affected by the volatility of raw materials prices. USSK and USSB are susceptible to these risks as they arise in Slovakia and the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, respectively. USSK is subject to foreign currency exchange risks because its revenues are primarily in euros and its costs are primarily in U.S. dollars and Slovak koruna. USSB is subject to foreign currency exchange risks because its revenues are primarily in euros and Serbian dinars and its costs are primarily in U.S. dollars and Serbian dinars. In response to the termination of the U.S. Section 201 proceedings, on December 5, 2003, the European Commission announced the termination of the definitive safeguard measures imposed on September 27, 2002. The EU safeguard proceedings, which were similar to the Section 201 proceedings, involved quota/tariff measures restricting the import of certain steel products into the EU. USSE had been impacted by the quota/tariff measures on four products: non alloy hot rolled coils, hot rolled strip, hot rolled sheet and cold rolled flat products. Annual shipment quotas were set for all four products and tariffs imposed if the quotas were exceeded. The measures were scheduled to expire on March 28, 2005; however, they would have ceased to impact USSK upon Slovakias accession into the EU, which occurred on May 1, 2004. During 2003, safeguard measures, similar to the EU measures, were also imposed by Poland (on March 8) and Hungary (on March 28). These measures ceased to affect USSK upon EU accession by Slovakia, Poland and Hungary on May 1, 2004. Flat rolled The acquisition of the assets of National on May 20, 2003, increased U. S. Steels stated annual raw steel production capability for domestic operations from 12.8 millions tons to 19.4 million tons. Raw steel production was 17.3 million tons in 2004, compared with 14.9 million tons in 2003, including results from the National assets following the acquisition, and 11.5 million tons in 2002. Raw steel production averaged 89 percent of capability in 2004, compared with 88 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the capability of National on a prorata basis, and 90 percent of capability in 2002. All steel produced in U. S. Steels domestic facilities is continuous cast. Flat rolled shipments were 15.6 million tons in 2004, 13.5 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from the facilities acquired from National, and 9.9 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 3 percent of Flat rolleds shipments in 2004, and 4 percent in 2003 and 2002. 11 Table of Contents Flat rolled produces sheets, tin mill products, strip mill plate and coke. Sheet products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated. Flat rolleds sheet customer base includes service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), construction and appliance customers. Flat rolled also supplies a full line of tin plate and tin free steel products, primarily used in the container industry. U. S. Steel produces plate in coil on the hot strip mill at Gary Works, which is further processed at the Feralloy Processing Company (FPC) joint venture. The majority of coke produced at the integrated steel plants is used to support Flat rolled operations; however, some coke from Clairton Works and the 1314B Partnership is sold to trade customers. Throughout 2004, U. S. Steel operated under a force majeure declaration to its coke customers due to U. S. Steels inability to obtain adequate supplies of specific types of coal to meet all the specification requirements of customers. U. S. Steel declared force majeure in early 2005 as coal supplies to Clairton Works were disrupted due to river lock closures resulting from flooding. U. S. Steel has long standing relationships with many of its customers, as do its joint ventures. With the exception of the Fairfield pipe mill, the operating results of all the facilities within U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills are included in Flat rolled. These facilities include Gary Works, Great Lake Works, Mon Valley Works, Granite City Works and Fairfield Works. Gary Works, located at Gary, Indiana, has annual raw steel production capability of 7.5 million tons. Gary Works has four coke batteries, four blast furnaces, three basic oxygen converters, three Q BOP vessels, a vacuum degassing unit and four continuous slab casters. Gary Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells several coke by products. Finishing facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, three temper mills, a double cold reduction line, two tin coating lines, an electrolytic galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets and tin mill products. Gary Works also produces strip mill plate. The Midwest Plant and East Chicago Tin are operated as part of Gary Works. The Midwest Plant, located in Portage, Indiana, finishes hot rolled bands. Midwest facilities include a pickling line, two cold reduction mills, two temper mills, a double cold reduction mill, two hot dip galvanizing lines, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. Principal products include tin mill products and hot dip galvanized, cold rolled and electrical lamination sheets. Midwest was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. East Chicago Tin is located in East Chicago, Indiana. Facilities include a pickling line, which was acquired in late 2003 in a non monetary exchange with International Steel Group, a cold reduction mill, a temper mill, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. Great Lakes Works, located in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan, has annual raw steel production capability of approximately 3.8 million tons. Great Lakes facilities include three blast furnaces, two basic oxygen converters, a vacuum degassing unit, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a high speed pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, a temper mill, an electrolytic galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled, electrolytic galvanized and hot dip galvanized sheets. Great Lakes Works was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. Mon Valley Works consists of the Edgar Thomson Plant, located in Braddock, Pennsylvania; the Irvin Plant, located in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania; the Fairless Plant, located in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania; and Clairton Works, located in Clairton, Pennsylvania. Mon Valley Works has annual raw steel production capability of 2.9 million tons. Facilities at the Edgar Thomson Plant include two blast furnaces, two basic oxygen converters, a vacuum degassing unit and a slab caster. Irvin Plant facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, a cold reduction mill, a temper mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. The only operational facility at the Fairless Plant is a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, as well as coke produced at Clairton Works. Clairton Works is comprised of nine coke batteries owned and operated by U. S. Steel, one coke battery leased and operated by U. S. Steel and an additional two coke batteries that are operated by U. S. Steel for the 1314B Partnership, which is discussed below. Clairton (including the 1314B Partnership) produced 4.3 million tons of coke in 2004 and 4.5 million tons in 2003 and 2002. Approximately 35 percent of annual production (including the 1314B Partnership) was consumed by U. S. Steel facilities in 2004 and the remainder was sold to other domestic steel producers. Several coke by products are sold to the chemicals and raw materials industries. 12 Table of Contents U. S. Steel is the sole general partner of and owns an equity interest in the 1314B Partnership. As general partner, U. S. Steel is responsible for operating and selling coke and by products from the partnerships two coke batteries located at U. S. Steels Clairton Works. U. S. Steels share of profits and losses during 2004 was 45.75 percent. The partnership at times had operating cash shortfalls in 2004, 2003 and 2002 that were funded with loans from U. S. Steel. There were no outstanding loans with the partnership at December 31, 2004, 2003 or 2002. U. S. Steel may dissolve the partnership under certain circumstances including if it is required to make equity investments or loans in excess of $150 million to fund such shortfalls. As the primary beneficiary of the partnership, U. S. Steel consolidates the results of the 1314B Partnership in its financial statements. Granite City Works, located in Granite City, Illinois, has annual raw steel production capability of approximately 2.8 million tons. Granite Citys facilities include two coke batteries, two blast furnaces, two basic oxygen converters, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Granite City Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells several coke by products. Principal products include hot rolled, hot dipped galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets. Granite City Works was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. Fairfield Works, located in Fairfield, Alabama, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.4 million tons. Fairfield Works facilities included in Flat rolled are a blast furnace, three Q BOP vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, a slab caster, a rounds caster, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, two temper/skin pass mills, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, and rounds for Tubular. ProCoil, a wholly owned subsidiary located in Canton, Michigan, slits and cuts steel coils to desired specifications, provides laser welding services and warehouses material to service automotive customers. ProCoil was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. U. S. Steel participates directly and through subsidiaries in a number of joint ventures which are included in Flat rolled. All such joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method. Certain of the joint ventures and other investments are described below, all of which are 50 percent owned except FPC, in which U. S. Steel holds a 49 percent interest. For financial information regarding joint ventures and other investments, see Note 14 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel and Pohang Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (POSCO) of South Korea participate in a joint venture, USS POSCO Industries (USS POSCO), located in Pittsburg, California. The joint venture markets high quality sheet and tin mill products, principally in the western United States. USS POSCO produces cold rolled sheets, galvanized sheets, tin plate and tin free steel from hot bands principally provided by U. S. Steel and POSCO. Total shipments by USS POSCO were 1.4 million tons in 2004, and 1.2 million tons in 2003 and 2002. U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. of Japan participate in a joint venture, PRO TEC Coating Company (PRO TEC). PRO TEC owns and operates two hot dip galvanizing lines in Leipsic, Ohio, which primarily serve the automotive industry. PRO TECs annual capability is approximately 1.2 million tons. Total shipments by PRO TEC were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 2003 and 2002. U. S. Steel and Severstal North America, Inc. participate in Double Eagle Steel Coating Company (DESCO), a joint venture which operates an electrogalvanizing facility located in Dearborn, Michigan. The facility can coat both sides of sheet steel with free zinc or zinc alloy coatings, primarily for use in the automotive industry. Availability of the facility is shared equally by the partners. On December 15, 2001, production at DESCO was halted due to a fire. The facility restarted operations on September 10, 2002, with full operating levels achieved by December 2002. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, DESCO produced 650 thousand tons, 683 thousand tons and 163 thousand tons, respectively, of electrogalvanized steel. U. S. Steel and International Steel Group, which is being acquired by Mittal Steel Co. NV, participate in the Double G joint venture, a hot dip galvanizing and Galvalume&reg; facility located near Jackson, Mississippi, which primarily serves the construction industry. U. S. Steels interest was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. Double Gs production was 316 thousand tons in 2004 and 288 thousand tons in 2003. 13 Table of Contents U. S. Steel and Worthington Industries, Inc. participate in a joint venture known as Worthington Specialty Processing, which operates a steel processing facility in Jackson, Michigan. The plant is operated by Worthington Industries, Inc. The facility contains state of the art technology capable of processing master steel coils into both slit coils and sheared first operation blanks including rectangles, trapezoids, parallelograms and chevrons. It is designed to meet specifications for the automotive, appliance, furniture and metal door industries. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, Worthington Specialty Processing shipments were 326 thousand tons, 282 thousand tons and 250 thousand tons, respectively. U. S. Steel and Olympic Steel, Inc. participate in a joint venture to process laser welded sheet steel blanks at a facility in Van Buren, Michigan. The joint venture conducts business as Olympic Laser Processing. Laser welded blanks are used in the automotive industry for a number of body fabrication applications. Olympic Laser Processing shipped 2.1 million parts in 2004 and 2003, and 1.7 million parts in 2002. FPC is a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Feralloy Corporation that converts coiled hot strip mill plate into sheared and flattened plates for shipment to customers. The plant, located in Portage, Indiana, has a temper mill linked to a cut to length leveling line. The line provides stress free, leveled product with a superior surface finish. FPC provides processing services to the joint venture partners and other steel consumers and service centers. FPC had annual revenues of $5.1 million in 2004, $3.4 million in 2003 and $3.6 million in 2002. Chrome Deposit Corporation (CDC) is a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Court Holdings. The joint venture reconditions finishing work rolls, which require grinding, chrome plating, and or texturing. The rolls are used on rolling mills to provide superior finishes on steel sheets. CDC has 7 locations across the United States, with all locations near major steel mills. In 2004, 2003, and 2002, CDC had annual revenues of $19.9 million, $19.0 million, and $18.0 million, respectively. U. S. Steel, through its wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Export Company de Mexico, along with Feralloy Mexico, S.R.L. de C.V., participates in a joint venture, Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V. (Acero Prime). Acero Prime operates in Mexico with facilities in San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, and a leased warehouse in Toluca. Acero Prime provides slitting, warehousing and logistical services. U. S. Steel also owns an automotive technical center in Troy, Michigan. This 43,000 square foot facility brings together automotive sales, service, distribution and logistics services, product technology and applications research in one location. Much of U. S. Steels work in developing new grades of steel to meet the demands of automakers for high strength, light weight and formable materials is carried out at this location. U. S. Steel also carries out a wide range of applied research, development and technical support functions at a leased Research and Technology Center located in Monroeville, Pennsylvania. In December 2004, U. S. Steel, through a consolidated entity established to facilitate the purchase and sale of certain fixed assets, purchased a building in Munhall, Pennsylvania. It is anticipated that the research, development and technical support functions currently performed in Monroeville will be relocated to this new facility sometime during 2006. USSE The USSE segment consists of USSK, USSB and several subsidiaries of each. USSK, headquartered in Kosice, Slovakia, has annual steelmaking capability of 5.0 million tons and produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. In 2004, USSK raw steel production was 4.5 million tons, compared to 4.7 million tons in 2003 and 4.4 million tons in 2002. USSK has two coke batteries, three blast furnaces, two steel shops with two vessels each, a vacuum degassing unit, a dual strand caster attached to each steel shop, a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, a temper mill, a temper/double cold reduction mill, two hot dip galvanizing lines, two tin coating lines, three dynamo lines and a color coating line. During 2002, USSK started up the vacuum degassing facility to increase its capability to produce steel grades required for high value applications. In 2003, USSK started up a continuous annealing line and the second tin coating line to expand its supply of tin mill products. In 2004, USSK started up a third dynamo line. USSKs steel shipments totaled 3.9 million tons in 2004, 4.7 million tons in 2003, including those realized under toll conversion agreements with Sartid, and 4.0 million tons in 2002. 14 Table of Contents In addition, USSK owns 100 percent of Walzwerk Finow GmbH, located in eastern Germany, which produces and ships about 90 thousand tons per year of welded precision steel tubes and cold rolled specialty shaped sections from both cold rolled and hot rolled product supplied primarily by USSK. USSK also has facilities for manufacturing heating radiators, spiral welded pipe and refractories. A majority of product sales by USSK are denominated in euros and the majority of spending is in U.S. dollars and Slovak koruna. This results in exposure to currency fluctuations. U. S. Steel continually evaluates the currency mix of USSKs cash flows. Significant changes in currency mix could result in a change in the functional currency from U.S. dollars to euros in the future. In September 2003, U. S. Steel acquired USSB. The facilities acquired include an integrated plant in Smederevo which has two blast furnaces, three basic oxygen converters, a vacuum degassing unit, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, a temper mill and a temper/double cold reduction mill. Other facilities purchased include a tin mill in Sabac, a limestone mine in Kucevo, a river port and a foundry, all located in Serbia. U. S. Steels technical assessment determined that, with improved operating practices and an extensive rehabilitation and capital spending program, USSB has annual raw steel design production capability of about 2.4 million tons. During 2004, capability utilization averaged 48 percent, raw steel production was 1.2 million tons and steel shipments totaled 1.1 million tons. In 2003, following the acquisition, USSBs raw steel production was 146 thousand tons and steel shipments totaled 150 thousand tons. A second blast furnace at USSB is expected to be returned to production in the third quarter of 2005. A majority of product sales by USSB are denominated in euros and Serbian dinars and the majority of spending is in U.S. dollars and Serbian dinars. This results in exposure to currency fluctuations. The U.S. dollar is currently the functional currency. Tubular U. S. Steel produces both seamless and ERW tubular products. Seamless products are produced on a mill located at Fairfield Works in Fairfield, Alabama, and on two mills located in Lorain, Ohio. ERW products are produced on a mill located in McKeesport, Pennsylvania, which is operated by Camp Hill Corporation. U. S. Steel has the capability to produce 1.9 million tons of tubular products in the 5 million ton tubular markets it serves. Tubular shipments were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 0.9 million tons in 2003 and 0.8 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 9 percent of Tubulars shipments in 2004, 15 percent in 2003 and 17 percent in 2002. The transfer value for rounds supplied by Flat rolled is set at the beginning of the year based on expected total production costs. Real Estate Real Estate manages U. S. Steels real estate assets, which include approximately 200,000 acres of surface rights primarily in 5 states. Income is derived mainly from the sale of developed and undeveloped land and real estate leases. Real estate development and sales occur over approximately 25,000 acres of residential, commercial and industrial development and brownfield industrial redevelopment principally in Alabama, Pennsylvania and Maryland. Undeveloped land sales occur primarily in Alabama and Minnesota. Real estate lease income is derived from various leases primarily in Pennsylvania and Alabama. Straightline Straightline specialized in the distribution of processed, flat rolled steel products to companies of all sizes that did not typically buy steel products directly from steel producers. Straightline was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. As of January 1, 2004, the residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Other Businesses U. S. Steel controls domestic iron ore properties having proven and probable iron ore reserves in grades that can be processed by U. S. Steels domestic operations. At year end 2004, these reserves totaled approximately 15 Table of Contents 969 million short tons of iron ore concentrate equivalents available from low grade iron bearing materials. All reserves are located in Minnesota. Approximately 30 percent of these reserves are owned and the remaining 70 percent are leased. Current lease expiration dates vary from five to sixty years in the future, with the largest (covering 36 percent of leased reserves) expiring in 2058. Leases are routinely revised and extended. U. S. Steels iron ore pellet operations at Mt. Iron, Minnesota (Minntac) produced 16.9 million tons of iron ore pellets in 2004, 15.8 million tons in 2003 and 16.7 million tons in 2002. Keetac produced 6.0 million tons of iron ore pellets in 2004 and 2.9 million tons in 2003, following the acquisition from National. Iron ore pellet shipments were 24.3 million tons in 2004, 18.2 million tons in 2003, including shipments from Keetac following the acquisition, and 16.2 million tons in 2002. U. S. Steel owns 100 percent of Transtar, Inc. Transtar and its subsidiaries (the Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company in Illinois and Indiana; the Lake Terminal Railroad Company in Ohio; Union Railroad Company and McKeesport Connecting Railroad Company in Pennsylvania; and the Birmingham Southern Railroad Company, Fairfield Southern Company, Inc., Mobile River Terminal Company, and Warrior and Gulf Navigation Company, all located in Alabama) comprise substantially all of U. S. Steels transportation business. Transtar provides rail and barge transportation services to a number of U. S. Steels domestic facilities as well as other domestic customers in the steel, coal, chemicals, oil refining and forest production industries. U. S. Steel also owns 100 percent of Delray, a small transportation company located in Michigan, which was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. UEC Technologies LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of U. S. Steel, sells technical services worldwide to the steel, mining, chemical and related industries. Together with its subsidiary companies, it provides engineering and consulting services for facility expansions and modernizations, operating improvement projects and environmental projects. Raw Materials and Energy Iron Ore With the iron ore facilities at Minntac and Keetac, U. S. Steel has the capability of being completely self sufficient for its domestic iron ore requirements to support blast furnace production. Any surplus pellet production is sold to domestic and foreign consumers, including USSE. Depending on market conditions and transportation costs, internal iron ore requirements may be satisfied by the purchase of pellets from third parties, permitting the sale of additional pellets on the open market. USSE purchases most of its iron ore requirements from third parties, but has purchased iron ore from U. S. Steels domestic iron ore facilities. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of iron ore, adequate to meet USSEs needs, are available at competitive market prices. The main sources of iron ore for USSE are Russia and Ukraine, with supplemental supply from Venezuela and Brazil. Coal All of U. S. Steels domestic coal requirements are purchased from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that under normal circumstances supplies of coal, adequate to meet its domestic needs, are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Coal supplies were disrupted during late 2003 and throughout 2004 largely due to the declarations of force majeure by several of U. S. Steels major coal suppliers. Supplies were disrupted in early 2005 due to river lock closures resulting from flooding. U. S. Steel has entered into contracts at competitive market prices for its domestic coal requirements in 2005. USSKs coal requirements are purchased from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of coal, adequate to meet USSKs needs, are available from third parties at competitive market prices. The main sources of coal for USSK include Poland, the Czech Republic, the United States and Russia. USSB, which purchases coke, does not currently require coal to support its operations. 16 Table of Contents Coke Domestically, U. S. Steel operates cokemaking facilities at its Clairton, Pennsylvania; Gary, Indiana; and Granite City, Illinois locations. These owned and or operated facilities have the capability to supply all of U. S. Steels domestic metallurgical coke requirements for blast furnace production. Following its purchase of National in May 2003, U. S. Steel operated, pursuant to an Operations and Maintenance Agreement, a cokemaking facility owned by EES Coke Battery, LLC (EES), located at U. S. Steels Great Lakes Works. Effective October 1, 2004, the Operations and Maintenance Agreement with EES was terminated and EES assumed responsibility for operating its cokemaking facility. Pursuant to a Coke Sales Agreement with EES, U. S. Steel purchased 100 percent of the output of the EES cokemaking facility during 2004 and will purchase a portion of such output during 2005. Blast furnace coal injection processes at Gary Works, Great Lakes Works and Fairfield Works continue to reduce U. S. Steels domestic coke requirements. USSK operates a cokemaking facility that primarily serves the steelmaking operations at USSK. Depending on market conditions and operational schedules, USSK may purchase small quantities of coke on the open market and may also supply a portion of USSBs needs. Blast furnace coal injection processes at USSK continue to reduce its coke requirements. USSB purchases predominantly all of its coke requirements from third party suppliers. While the coke market is expected to continue to be constrained in 2005, U. S. Steel believes that supplies of coke, adequate to meet USSKs and USSBs needs, are available at competitive market prices. The main sources of coke for USSK and USSB in 2005 include Poland, Ukraine, Russia, Bosnia and China. Limestone All domestic limestone requirements are purchased from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of limestone, adequate to meet its domestic needs, are readily available from third parties at competitive market prices. All limestone requirements for USSK are purchased from a third party under a long term contract. USSB sources approximately 50 percent of its limestone requirements from third party suppliers with the balance coming from production from a limestone mine under its direct control. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of limestone, adequate to meet USSBs needs, are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Scrap and Other Materials Supplies of steel scrap, tin, zinc and other alloying and coating materials required to fulfill U. S. Steels requirements for domestic and European operations are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Generally, approximately 40 percent of U. S. Steels scrap requirements is generated through its normal operations. U. S. Steel utilizes some hedging and derivative purchasing practices with regard to domestic requirements for tin and zinc. Natural Gas U. S. Steel purchases all of its domestic natural gas requirements from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of natural gas, adequate to meet its domestic needs, are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Currently, about 60 percent of U. S. Steels domestic natural gas purchases are based on solicited bids, on a monthly basis, from various vendors; approximately 30 percent are made through long term contracts; and the remainder are made daily. U. S. Steel utilizes some hedging and derivative purchasing practices with regard to domestic requirements for natural gas because of the volatility of natural gas markets. USSK and USSB purchase their natural gas requirements from third parties under annual contracts. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of natural gas, adequate to meet USSKs and USSBs needs, are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Environmental Matters U. S. Steel maintains a comprehensive environmental policy overseen by the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of the U. S. Steel Board of Directors. The Environmental Affairs organization has the 17 Table of Contents responsibility to ensure that U. S. Steels operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that are in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The Executive Environmental Committee, which is comprised of officers of U. S. Steel, is charged with reviewing its overall performance with various environmental compliance programs. Also, U. S. Steel, largely through the American Iron and Steel Institute, continues its involvement in the development of various air, water and waste regulations with federal, state and local governments concerning the implementation of cost effective pollution reduction strategies. The domestic businesses of U. S. Steel are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act (CAA) with respect to air emissions; the Clean Water Act (CWA) with respect to water discharges; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances. In addition, all states where U. S. Steel operates have similar laws dealing with the same matters. These laws are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable due in part to the fact that certain implementing regulations for laws such as RCRA and the CAA have not yet been promulgated or in certain instances are undergoing revision. These environmental laws and regulations, particularly the CAA, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and the cost of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet CAA obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be adversely affected. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSKs environmental expenses in 2004 included usage fees, permit fees and or penalties totaling approximately $6 million. There are no legal proceedings pending against USSK involving environmental matters. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First 18 Table of Contents Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently less restrictive than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. The 1997 Kyoto Global Climate Change Agreement produced by the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, which would have required restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the United States, has not been ratified by the U.S. Senate, and it appears unlikely that it will be implemented domestically in the near future. It is unclear what international action will be taken concerning greenhouse gases or the economic impact of such programs; however, inter government discussions continue. Air The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a federally mandated operating permit program and enhanced civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. The principal impact of the CAA on U. S. Steel is on the cokemaking and primary steelmaking operations of U. S. Steel, as described in this section. The CAA requires the regulation of hazardous air pollutants and development and promulgation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) Standards. It was determined in 1995 that the Chrome Electroplating MACT did not apply to steel mill sources; however, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) stated that MACT standards applicable to these sources would be forthcoming. To date, there has been no action taken. Potentially affected U. S. Steel facilities are the electrolytic tinning lines at Gary Works and the tin free steel lines at East Chicago Tin and the Midwest Plant. The EPA finalized MACT standards for integrated iron and steel plants on May 20, 2003, that require compliance by May 22, 2006. The taconite iron ore processing MACT was finalized on October 30, 2003, and requires compliance by October 30, 2006. U. S. Steel anticipates that additional emissions control equipment will be needed to comply with the taconite iron ore processing MACT at Minntac and Keetac. Costs associated with compliance with these MACT standards are included in the capital expenditures disclosed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. The CAA specifically addressed the regulation and control of coke oven batteries. The National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants for coke oven batteries was finalized in October 1993, setting forth the MACT standard and, as an alternative, a Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) standard. Effective January 1998, U. S. Steel elected to comply with the LAER standards. U. S. Steel believes it will be able to meet the current LAER standards. The LAER standards will be further revised in 2010 and additional health risk based standards are expected to be adopted in 2020. The EPA finalized the Phase II Coke MACT for pushing, quenching and battery stacks on April 14, 2003, that requires compliance by April 14, 2006. U. S. Steel is in the process of developing an estimate of the cost to comply. 19 Table of Contents In September 1997, the EPA adopted revisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone and particulate matter, which are significantly more stringent than prior standards. The EPA is also developing regulations to address Regional Haze. The impact of these revised standards could be significant to U. S. Steel, but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated until the final regulations are promulgated and, more importantly, the states implement their State Implementation Plans covering their standards. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains the necessary discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts its operations to be in compliance with such permits. For additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 22,000 domestically and approximately 26,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented 20 Table of Contents by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in February 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Represented employees at USSB are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. All other filings are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the Securities and Exchange Commissions web site, the Internet address of which is www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on revenues and income (loss) of the reportable segments and Other Businesses and on revenues and other income and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 5 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 57 and F 58. 21 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Olympic Laser Processing(b) Van Buren, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Pipe Mills Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar and Delray Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 22 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Granite City, Illinois, which had been subject to a lease through 2012, was purchased in June 2004. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 215 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 23 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) Approximately 4 percent did not specify any damages sought at all, approximately 6 percent alleged damages of $1.0 million or less, another 0.6 percent alleged damages between $2.0 million and $10.0 million, and 0.4 percent alleged damages over $10 million. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 17,100 active claims outstanding. In 2002, U. S. Steel settled 1,135 claims for a total of approximately $700,000, and had a total of 2,662 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and 842 new claims filed. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that 24 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2004, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 20 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 8 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 10 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of sharing in any final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In 1988, U. S. Steel and two other PRPs (Bethlehem Steel Corporation and William Fiore) agreed to the issuance of an administrative order by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to undertake emergency removal work at the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. The cost of such removal, which has been completed, was approximately $4.2 million, of which U. S. Steel paid $3.4 million. EPA indicated that further remediation of this site would be required. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. After a Feasibility Study (FS) by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) and submission of a conceptual remedial action plan in 2001 by U. S. Steel, U. S. Steel submitted a revised conceptual remedial action plan on May 31, 2002. U. S. Steel and PADEP signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible 25 Table of Contents for remediation of this site. On March 18, 2003, PADEP notified U. S. Steel that the public comment period was concluded and the Consent Order and Agreement is final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $7.0 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from EPA requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/FS. The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project based on the groups selection from the range of alternatives presented in the FS is estimated to be $6.4 million. Of that total, U. S. Steels allocable share among the eight PRPs is approximately $1.0 million. In addition, U. S. Steels share of PRP group costs is expected to be less than $100,000 in 2005. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities The following is a discussion of other remediation activities at the major domestic U. S. Steel facilities: There are 39 additional sites related to U. S. Steel where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 4 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 17 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 5 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. Another 4 sites, including the Grand Calumet River remediation at Gary Works, the closure of hazardous waste sites at Gary Works, the claim for investigation, restoration and compensation of injuries to sediments in the east branch of the Grand Calumet River near Gary Works, and corrective action and groundwater investigation at Gary Works, have or are expected to have costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation in excess of $5 million. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. In 1999, U. S. Steel paid civil penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs. In addition, U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with NPDES requirements. The sediment remediation project is an approved final interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works. As of December 31, 2004, project costs have amounted to $51.5 million with another $100,000 presently projected to complete work under the approved sediment remediation plan. A Dredge Completion Report was submitted to EPA on March 29, 2004. EPA responded with written comments on the report. In response, U. S. Steel conducted additional sampling of river sediments in a portion of the dredge project area. Based on the results of the additional sediment sampling, U. S. Steel is considering additional dredging that would include additional substantial bank stabilization measures. Negotiations to have this additional work considered as a final measure are proceeding. The additional dredging and bank stabilization is anticipated to cost approximately $9.0 million. At the conclusion of the dredge project, the Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) will remain available and could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective 26 Table of Contents measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to the Administrative Order on Consent for corrective action. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $4.9 million. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River, costs of which are estimated to be $2.4 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property. The D2 disposal site and a nearby refuse area will be closed collectively. Total costs to close D2, D5, T2 and the refuse area are estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The public trustees completed a preassessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have determined to perform a Natural Resources Damages Assessment. U. S. Steel was identified as a PRP along with 15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. U. S. Steel and eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The trustees notified the public of their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. In 2000, the trustees concluded their assessment of sediment injuries, which included a technical review of environmental conditions. The PRP joint defense group has proposed terms for the settlement of this claim, which have been endorsed by representatives of the trustees and EPA to be included in a consent decree that U. S. Steel expects will resolve this claim. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs, and obtained an 8 acre parcel of land that has been transferred to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for addition to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Park owned by the National Park Service. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement has been executed by the parties and lodged with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana on August 20, 2004. Concurrent with this lodging of the Consent Decree, the United States of America filed its complaint titled United States of America v. Atlantic Richfield, et. al. asserting liability for its claim against the settling parties. In December 2004, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) filed a motion with the court that requested approval and entry of the consent decree. On October 23, 1998, a final Administrative Order on Consent was issued by EPA addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. The Current Conditions Report, U. S. Steels first deliverable, was submitted to EPA in January 1997 and was approved by EPA in 1998. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans and a self implementing interim measure have been submitted to EPA for approval. Two other self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $14.9 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations and the submitted work plans is estimated to be $6.4 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to present. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $424,000. 27 Table of Contents Fairfield Works In December 1995, U. S. Steel reached an agreement in principle with EPA and DOJ with respect to alleged RCRA violations at Fairfield Works. A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and DOJ and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved for the site on September 16, 2002. Field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel is currently preparing a Phase I RFI Report for submission to ADEM in early 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $414,000. In addition, U. S. Steel is developing a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. Lower Opossum Creek is approximately 4.5 miles of the Opossum Creek Area of Concern. U. S. Steel is investigating Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the investigation costs. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of this investigation and costs to implement sediment remediation to be $823,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $478,000. Lorain Pipe Mills In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe), was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. USS/Kobe and EPA commenced settlement negotiations in July 1999. In August 1999, the steelmaking and bar producing operations of USS/Kobe were combined with companies controlled by Blackstone Capital Partners II to form Republic. The tubular operations of USS/Kobe were transferred to a newly formed entity, Lorain Tubular Company, LLC (Lorain Tubular), which operated as a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe until December 31, 1999, when U. S. Steel purchased all of Kobes interest in Lorain Tubular. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Pipe Mills. U. S. Steel and EPA have agreed upon terms of settlement that include a cash penalty for U. S. Steel of $100,000 plus a supplemental environmental project to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Negotiations on the final terms and conditions of the consent decree are ongoing. Most of the matters raised by EPA relate to Republics facilities; however, air discharges from U. S. Steels No. 3 seamless pipe mill were also cited and U. S. Steel will be responsible for conducting a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. U. S. Steel will be responsible only for matters relating to its facilities. Issues related to Republic have been resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works U. S. Steel has agreed to the terms of a consent decree that will include the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the BOP; a civil penalty of $950,000; and a supplemental environmental project at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Great Lakes Works continues to identify and evaluate potential operating practices and facility improvements to reduce emissions. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $12.9 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through December 31, 2004. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $363,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. 28 Table of Contents Geneva Works In November 1989, the Utah Department of Environmental Quality issued a permit to U. S. Steel for the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments including facility wide corrective action at U. S. Steels former Geneva Works. The permit was administratively extended until May 14, 2004, when it was reissued to U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company (Geneva), the site owner. The permit allocates responsibility for corrective action between U. S. Steel and Geneva. U. S. Steel has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations on some areas of the facility for which U. S. Steel has responsibility under the permit. The remaining costs to prepare these work plans, implement field investigations and continue post closure care on the three hazardous waste impoundments are estimated to be approximately $5.6 million. On June 2, 2004, Geneva filed a motion in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Utah to approve the amendment and assumption of the 1987 Asset Sales Agreement, the acceptance of the permit and the retention of a remediation contractor. On July 7, 2004, the motion was heard and granted providing for Genevas continuing involvement and funding of the remediation required by the permit. Other In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The site was owned by Armour Agriculture Chemical Company (now named Viad) from 1912 to 1968. U. S. Steel owned the site from 1968 to 1986 and sold the site to LaRoche Industries in 1986. The agreed order allocated responsibility for assessment and cleanup costs as follows: Viad 48 percent, U. S. Steel 26 percent and LaRoche 26 percent; and LaRoche was appointed to be the lead party responsible for conducting the cleanup. In March 2001, U. S. Steel was notified that LaRoche had filed for protection under bankruptcy law. On August 23, 2001, the allocation of responsibility for this site assessment and cleanup and the cost allocation was approved by the bankruptcy court in the LaRoche bankruptcy. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $801,000, based on the allocation factor of 26 percent. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas. The site is a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. U. S. Steel agreed in a Consent Order before KDHE, signed April 7, 2003, with KDHE and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Under that agreement, U. S. Steel and SSB each bear a 50 percent share of the costs of those responsibilities. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.2 million. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2005, are as follows: John J. Connelly 58 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 56 Executive Vice PresidentOperations Gretchen R. Haggerty 49 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer Christopher J. Navetta 56 President, U. S. Steel Kosice, s.r.o. Dan D. Sandman 56 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 55 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 57 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 50 President and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 55. As of January 31, 2005, there were 31,747 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2004, no unregistered shares were issued. 30 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2004(a) 2003 2002 2001(b) 2000(b) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues and other income(c)(d) $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 $ 6,375 $ 6,132 Income (loss) from operations(e) 1,580 (730 ) 128 (405 ) 104 Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) 1,077 (406 ) 61 (218 ) (21 ) Net income (loss)(e) $ 1,091 $ (463 ) $ 61 $ (218 ) $ (21 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(f) basic $ 9.47 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.37 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Net income (loss)(f) basic 9.60 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.48 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Dividends paid(g) .20 .20 .20 .55 1.00 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 10,956 $ 7,837 $ 7,977 $ 8,337 $ 8,711 Capitalization: Notes payable $ $ $ $ $ 70 Long term debt including amount due within one year(h) 1,371 1,933 1,434 1,466 2,375 Preferred stock of subsidiary(i) 66 Trust Preferred Securities(i) 183 Stockholders equity 3,970 1,093 2,027 2,506 1,919 Total capitalization $ 5,341 $ 3,026 $ 3,461 $ 3,972 $ 4,613 (a) Includes minor revisions from the unaudited results reported on Form 8 K filed on January 25, 2005. Unaudited results for the year ended December 31, 2004, were income from operations of $1,584 million and net income of $1,085 million, or $8.44 per diluted share. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon). On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2000, and the income statement for each of the two years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, represent a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. Stockholders equity as of December 31, 2000, represents the combined net assets of the businesses comprising U. S. Steel (Marathons net investment in U. S. Steel). (c) Consists of revenues, dividend and investee income (loss), net gains on disposal of assets and other income (loss). (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in revenues and other income from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic, which was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. These were partially offset by reduced domestic tubular and plate shipment volumes. The increase in revenues and other income from 2000 to 2001 was mainly due to the inclusion of USSK revenues for the full year, the inclusion of Transtar revenues following the reorganization and higher income from investees relating to the gain on the Transtar reorganization; partially offset by lower domestic sheet, tubular and plate shipment volumes, lower average realized prices for domestic sheet products, and the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. The decrease from 2000 to 2001 mainly resulted from lower prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; higher employee benefit costs; lower results from coal, iron ore pellet and tin operations; and increased asset impairments; partially offset by a full year of income from USSK and the gain on the Transtar reorganization. (f) See Note 11 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (g) For years 2000 and 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (h) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease in long term debt from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to transactions related to the separation from Marathon. (i) At the separation from Marathon, these securities were either redeemed for cash by Marathon, or retained by Marathon and redeemed or repaid in January 2002. 31 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel is the second largest integrated steel producer in North America and has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume; selling prices; production costs; and value added product mix, since these products typically provide a higher profit margin than more commodity type steel products. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on its ability to implement the strategy described below. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, and U. S. Steel in particular, include the sustainability of higher steel prices; the steep increase in the cost of purchased raw materials; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has led to much of the recent volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States increased significantly during 2004 and could continue to increase depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, and consumption in the United States versus other regions. Strategy U. S. Steels business strategy is to continue to grow its investment in high end finishing assets, expand its global business platform, reduce its costs and become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets where management believes that U. S. Steels leadership position, production and processing capabilities and technical service provide a competitive advantage. These products include advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets for the construction industry, improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods. U. S. Steel continues to enhance its value added businesses through the upgrading and modernization of its key production facilities. U. S. Steel continues to be interested in participating in further consolidation of the North American steel industry if it would be beneficial to customers, shareholders, creditors and employees. U. S. Steel continues to explore additional opportunities for steel and raw materials investments in Europe. U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading European steel producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing 32 Table of Contents European markets, to grow its customer base in Europe by providing reliable delivery of high quality steel and to invest in value added facilities, including a planned automotive hot dip galvanizing line, to improve USSEs product mix. Expansion opportunities in Europe and North America would be attractive to U. S. Steel. South America, China and India are also possible areas of interest. In 2004, U. S. Steel concentrated on successfully integrating the businesses acquired in 2003 (discussed below), improving its balance sheet, increasing liquidity and continuing to strengthen its core steel businesses in order to be better positioned for further expansion and continued improvements to its existing facilities. An equity offering of 8 million common shares was completed in March 2004 for net proceeds of $294 million, which were primarily used to redeem certain senior notes. In April 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of its 10 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of its 9 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. In addition, USSK retired $281 million of long term debt in 2004. In total these debt repayments reduced annualized interest expense by approximately $50 million. Also during 2004, U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan and $30 million to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In October 2004, U. S. Steels $600 million revolving credit facility was amended and restated to: 1) extend the maturity to October 2009, 2) increase the borrowing base, 3) reduce the pricing for both borrowings and undrawn commitments, and 4) limit the application of many of the restrictive covenants. In February 2004, U. S. Steel continued to divest its non core assets when it sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. In 2003, U. S. Steel engaged in several significant transactions aimed at strengthening its core steel businesses. On May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy substantially all of the integrated steelmaking assets of National Steel Corporation (National). See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. The facilities that were acquired included two integrated steel plants, Granite City Works in Granite City, Illinois, and Great Lakes Works in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan; the Midwest Plant in Portage, Indiana; ProCoil Company LLC (ProCoil) in Canton, Michigan; a 50 percent equity interest in Double G Coatings Company, L.P. (Double G) near Jackson, Mississippi; the iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota (Keetac); and the Delray Connecting Railroad Company (Delray) in Michigan. This acquisition increased annual domestic raw steel production capability by 6.6 million net tons (tons) to 19.4 million tons. U. S. Steel and the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) reached a five year labor agreement that was effective upon the completion of the National acquisition and which covers both U. S. Steel and former National employees. This agreement allowed for a workforce restructuring aimed at achieving a 20 percent productivity improvement, expanded profit based variable compensation, provided cost sharing mechanisms for employee and retiree health care expenses, and provided a joint mechanism to consider further acquisitions of steel and steel related assets in North America. On September 12, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy Sartid a.d. (In Bankruptcy), an integrated steel company located in the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Sartid). U. S. Steel is operating these facilities as USSB. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. This acquisition increased annual European raw steel production capability by 2.4 million tons to 7.4 million tons. On June 30, 2003, U. S. Steel completed the sale of its coal mines and related assets (Mining Sale). As a result, U. S. Steel no longer mines any coal. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale. In a non monetary transaction in November 2003, U. S. Steels plate mill at Gary Works was exchanged for a pickling line located in East Chicago, Indiana. This was U. S. Steels only plate mill; however, U. S. Steel still produces plate in coil on its hot strip mills at Gary Works and at its European operations. 33 Table of Contents In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. Straightline Source (Straightline) was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2005. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total $230 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets for 2005 would have decreased or increased, respectively, the expected net periodic pension cost by $34 million. U. S. Steel determines the discount rate applied to pension and OPEB obligations at each year end or required interim period based on a number of external barometers used to measure the status of high quality bond rates consistent with the expected payout period of the obligations. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 6.0 percent to 5.75 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2005 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. Total OPEB costs in 2005 are expected to be approximately $109 million. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, a 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased pension and OPEB liabilities by $340 million and $110 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased pension and OPEB liabilities by $370 million and $120 million, respectively. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on 34 Table of Contents the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most salaried benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2005. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the escalation trend would have increased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $8 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the escalation trend would have decreased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $7 million in 2005. Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. The amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2004, was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of these net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004 and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2004, total accruals for environmental remediation were $123 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. 35 Table of Contents Segments During 2004, U. S. Steel had four reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE), Tubular Products (Tubular) and Real Estate. As of January 1, 2004, the residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. The application of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, resulted in U. S. Steel consolidating the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. (1314B Partnership) effective January 1, 2004. The results of the 1314B Partnership, which are included in the Flat rolled segment, were previously accounted for under the equity method. For further information, see Notes 4 and 18 to the Financial Statements. The National acquisition changed the composition of the Flat rolled segment and Other Businesses as described below, but did not result in a change in U. S. Steels reportable segments. Effective with the Mining Sale, Other Businesses are no longer involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. Effective with the acquisition of Sartid, the USSK segment was renamed USSE and includes the operating results of both USSK and USSB. Effective with the third quarter of 2003, the composition of the Flat rolled segment was changed to include the results of the coke operations at Clairton Works and Gary Works, which were previously reported in Other Businesses. This change reflected U. S. Steels management consolidations. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2003, benefit expenses for current retirees are separately identified and are no longer allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. These expenses include pensions, health care, life insurance and any profit based expenses for the benefit of retirees. Benefit expenses for active employees continue to be allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. Furthermore, U. S. Steel changed its methodology for allocating certain corporate costs. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for details. These changes were made so that operating results of U. S. Steels reportable segments will better reflect their current contribution and so that U. S. Steels segment results will be more comparable to those of its primary competitors who do not have significant fixed retiree obligations. Comparative results have been conformed to the current year presentation. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the service centers, conversion, transportation (including automotive), containers, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G, which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with Sartid. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service centers, appliance, containers, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed and developed for sale or lease. In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. In February 2004, U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. Prior to the disposition of these assets, results they generated were reported in the Real Estate segment. The Straightline segment included the operating results of U. S. Steels technology enabled distribution business that was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. 36 Table of Contents All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services, and engineering and consulting services. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of Keetac and Delray, which were acquired from National. Prior to the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer value for rounds supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and the transfer value of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs. Income The principal drivers of U. S. Steels financial results are price, volume, cost and product mix. To the extent that these factors are affected by industry conditions and the overall economic climate, revenues and income will reflect such conditions. Revenues and other income (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003(a) 2002 Revenues by product: Flat rolled steel products $ 11,549 $ 7,372 $ 5,115 Tubular 1,042 626 555 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore)(b) 705 419 513 Other(c) 673 911 766 Income (loss) from investees 57 (11 ) 33 Net gains on disposal of assets 57 85 29 Other income 25 56 43 Total revenues and other income $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Revenue from the sale of coal ceased with the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003. Includes revenue from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. Included revenue from steel mill products distribution prior to January 1, 2004, when the residual results of Straightline were included in Flat rolled; and revenue from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Total revenues and other income in 2004 increased $4,650 million compared to 2003. The increases primarily reflected higher average realized prices for Flat rolled, Tubular and European operations; higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet, tin and tubular products; higher shipment volumes for USSE; and higher revenues on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill and the absence of revenues from coal sales in 2004 due to the Mining Sale. Revenues for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues and other income in 2004 included a $43 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $36 million and other income of $7 million. Revenues and other income in 2003 included a net gain on disposal of assets of $55 million resulting from the timber contribution to the pension plan and a $47 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $13 million and other income of $34 million. Total revenues and other income in 2003 increased $2,404 million compared to 2002. The increase primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the Mining Sale, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. 37 Table of Contents Income from investees in 2002 included $39 million of insurance recoveries related to a 2001 fire at USS POSCO, other income included $38 million from a Federal excise tax refund, and gains on disposal of assets included $20 million from the sale of U. S. Steels shares of VSZ a.s. (VSZ). Profit based union payments Results for 2004 included costs of $241 million related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. Segment results for 2004 included $131 million of these costs and the balance was included in retiree benefit expenses. All of these costs are included in cost of revenues. Payment amounts per the agreement are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) to be contributed to a trust to assist National retirees with healthcare costs based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item are calculated in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $254 million in 2004, compared to $556 million in 2003 and a credit of $3 million in 2002. The costs in 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The credit in 2002 included $100 million of settlement losses. Excluding these one time charges, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. Excluding settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase of $212 million in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to a lower return on assets, a decline in the expected return on assets assumption and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $106 million in 2004, compared to $241 million in 2003 and $150 million in 2002. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. The increase in 2003 compared to 2002, excluding the curtailment charges, was primarily due to the addition of liabilities for National employees, changes in rate of retirement assumptions and a lower discount rate. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $18 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003 and 2002. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase in 2004 was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights and lower OPEB costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $673 million in 2003, compared to $418 million in 2002. The increase in 2003 was primarily due to higher pension and OPEB costs, increased compensation expense related 38 Table of Contents to stock appreciation rights, and higher expenses at USSE due mainly to unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange rate differences and increased business development expenses. These were partially offset by the favorable effect in 2003 of the absence of the impairment of retiree medical cost reimbursements receivable from Republic, which occurred in 2002. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for further details. Income (loss) from operations: (a) (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Flat rolled $ 1,185 $ (54 ) $ (84 ) USSE 394 203 110 Tubular 197 (25 ) (6 ) Real Estate 30 50 50 Straightline (70 ) (45 ) Total income (loss) from reportable segments 1,806 104 25 Other Businesses 28 (35 ) 33 Segment Income (Loss) from operations 1,834 69 58 Retiree benefit (expenses) credits (257 ) (107 ) 79 Other items not allocated to segments: Workforce reduction charges (including pension settlements) (17 ) (621 ) (100 ) Stock appreciation rights (23 ) (75 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Asset impairments (57 ) (14 ) Litigation items (25 ) 9 Costs related to Fairless shutdown (1 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire 39 Federal excise tax refund 38 Gain on VSZ share sale 20 Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,580 $ (730 ) $ 128 (a) See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices, which increased by $152 per ton; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. Flat rolled recorded a segment loss of $54 million in 2003, compared to a loss of $84 million in 2002. The decreased loss was primarily due to higher average realized prices and favorable effects resulting from ongoing cost improvement programs, the National acquisition and workforce reductions. These were partially offset by increased prices for raw materials, natural gas and utilities; higher employee benefit costs; increased costs for repair outages; and costs associated with the August 2003 power outage, which interrupted operations in Michigan and Ohio. 39 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income for 2004 was $394 million, compared to income of $203 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, which increased by $171 per ton, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. USSE segment income for the full year 2003 reflected an increase of $93 million from 2002. The improvement was primarily due to higher average realized prices as a result of favorable exchange rate effects and price increases, as well as higher shipment volumes. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, USSE shipments included those realized under toll conversion agreements with Sartid and, effective September 12, 2003, included all shipments from USSB (formerly Sartid). These improvements were partially offset by the unfavorable effect on costs of changes in foreign exchange rates; costs associated with the conversion and facility management agreements with Sartid, which were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition; and post acquisition operating losses at USSB including effects from a 38 day strike. Segment results for Tubular Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices, which increased by $233 per ton. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of tube rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which are transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. The segment loss for Tubular in 2003 reflected a decline of $19 million from 2002 primarily due to lower average realized prices for seamless products and higher natural gas prices, partially offset by increased shipment volumes for seamless products and income from the sale of Delta Tubular Processing. Segment results for Real Estate Real Estate segment income for 2004 was $30 million, down $20 million from 2003. The decrease primarily reflected lower mineral interest royalties as a result of the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Real Estate segment income for 2003 and 2002 was $50 million. Increased coal seam gas royalties were offset by lower real estate sales. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses recorded income of $28 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $35 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services. The loss for Other Businesses for 2003 reflected a decline of $68 million from income of $33 million in 2002. The decrease mainly reflected lower results from iron ore pellet operations due primarily to reduced shipment volumes, and lower results for coal operations and transportation services. Items not allocated to segments: Stock appreciation rights resulted in $23 million and $75 million of compensation expense accrued in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued over the last ten years and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. No stock appreciation rights were issued in 2004. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees, while the $100 million in 2002 reflected pension settlement losses related to retirements of personnel covered under the 40 Table of Contents non union qualified pension plan and the non qualified defined benefit pension plan. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels ongoing operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Asset impairments in 2002 were for charges related to reserves established against receivables exposure from financially distressed steel companies, primarily Republic. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of Real Estates remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain of Real Estates coal seam gas interests and from the Mining Sale. Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire represent U. S. Steels share of insurance recoveries in excess of facility repair costs for the cold reduction mill fire at USS POSCO, which occurred in May 2001. The final payment was received in December 2002. Federal excise tax refund represents the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales during the period 1993 through 1999. During 2002, U. S. Steel received cash and recognized pre tax income of $38 million, which is included in other income on the statement of operations. Of the $38 million received, $11 million represented interest. Net interest and other financial costs Net interest and other financial costs were $119 million in 2004, compared to $130 million in 2003 and $115 million in 2002. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. The decrease in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected lower interest on tax related liabilities, partially due to the more favorable 2004 adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes, more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and increased interest income. These favorable items were partially offset by a $33 million charge resulting from the early redemption of certain senior debt in April 2004. The $15 million increase from 2002 to 2003 was primarily due to interest on the new 9 3/4% senior notes, partially offset by more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and lower interest on tax related liabilities resulting from the favorable $17 million adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of both, and resulted in net gains of $32 million, $20 million and $16 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2004 was $351 million, compared to benefits in 2003 and 2002 of $454 million and $48 million, respectively. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefits in 2003 and 2002 included favorable effects relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million and $8 million, respectively. The change to a tax provision in 2004 as compared to tax benefits in the previous two years was primarily the result of pre tax income from domestic 41 Table of Contents operations recorded in 2004 compared to domestic pre tax losses in 2003 and 2002. The increase in the tax benefit in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to increased pre tax losses for domestic operations, including increased benefit costs. The Slovak Income Tax Act provides an income tax credit, which is available to USSK if certain conditions are met. In order to claim the tax credit in any year, 60 percent of USSKs sales must be export sales and USSK must reinvest the tax credits claimed in qualifying capital expenditures during the five years following the year in which the tax credit is claimed. The provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 100 percent of USSKs tax liability for years 2000 through 2004 and 50 percent of the current statutory rate of 19 percent for the years 2005 through 2009. Management believes that USSK fulfilled all of the necessary conditions for claiming the tax credit for the years for which it was claimed and anticipates meeting such requirements in 2005. As a result of claiming these tax credits and managements intent to reinvest earnings in foreign operations, virtually no income tax provision, except for the two $16 million tax payments discussed below, is recorded for USSK income. In connection with Slovakia joining the European Union (EU), the total tax credit granted to USSK for the period 2000 through 2009 was limited to $430 million, and USSK agreed to make tax payments of $16 million in 2004 and 2005, the first of which was paid in June 2004. Also, additional conditions for claiming the tax credit were established. These new conditions limit USSKs annual production of flat rolled product and its sales of all products into the 15 countries that were members of the EU prior to Slovakia and 9 other nations joining the EU in May 2004. Management believes the future impact of these changes will be minimal because Slovak tax laws have been modified and tax rates have been reduced since the acquisition of USSK; and the production and sales limits, which provide for annual increases through 2009, are not materially burdensome. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004, and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax liabilities of $314 million and $61 million, respectively. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2004, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the lack of historical information and the losses experienced in the months immediately following the acquisition of USSB. If USSB continues to generate income, the valuation allowance of $17 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2004 was $1,091 million, compared with a net loss of $463 million in 2003 and net income of $61 million in 2002. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Operations Flat rolled shipments were 15.6 million tons in 2004, 13.5 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from the facilities acquired from National, and 9.9 million tons in 2002. Tubular shipments were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 0.9 million tons in 2003 and 0.8 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 4 percent of U. S. Steels domestic shipments in 2004 and 2003, and 5 percent in 2002. USSE shipments were 5.0 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from USSB, and 4.0 million tons in 2002. 42 Table of Contents The acquisition of the assets of National on May 20, 2003, increased U. S. Steels stated annual raw steel production capability for domestic operations from 12.8 millions tons to 19.4 million tons. Raw steel production was 17.3 million tons in 2004, compared with 14.9 million tons in 2003, including production from the National assets following the acquisition, and 11.5 million tons in 2002. Raw steel production averaged 89 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 88 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the National capability on a prorata basis, and 90 percent of capability in 2002. All steel produced in U. S. Steels domestic facilities is continuous cast. Domestic capability utilization in 2004 and 2003 was reduced by scheduled blast furnace repair outages, which occurred in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2004 and in the second quarter of 2003. In 2002, domestic raw steel production was affected by poor market conditions during the first quarter, the acceleration into the fourth quarter of some blast furnace repair work that was originally scheduled to occur in 2003 and the high level of imports. The acquisition of Sartid on September 12, 2003, increased USSEs stated annual raw steel production capability from 5.0 million tons to 7.4 million tons. USSE raw steel production was 5.7 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including production from the Sartid assets following the acquisition, and 4.4 million tons in 2002. USSEs raw steel production averaged 77 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 84 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the Sartid capability on a prorata basis, and 88 percent in 2002. USSEs capability utilization in 2004 was reduced by the inclusion of USSB, as well as by operational difficulties with a blast furnace in Slovakia during the first quarter. USSEs capability utilization in 2003 was reduced by a blast furnace outage at USSK and the partial period inclusion of USSB as only about a third of its annual production capability was operational at the time of its acquisition in September 2003. USSBs capability utilization averaged 48 percent in 2004 and 20 percent in 2003 following the acquisition. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2004 increased $1,137 million from year end 2003 primarily due to increased cash balances and higher trade receivables. The increase in cash was mainly due to improved operations, $294 million of net proceeds from an equity offering and proceeds from the disposal of assets, partially offset by capital spending, the voluntary funding of benefit plans, the repayment of USSK debt and the redemption of certain senior notes. The increase in trade receivables primarily resulted from higher revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004, compared to last years fourth quarter, resulting mainly from higher steel prices. FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability is no longer required for this plan. Consequently, required entries were recorded that increased prepaid pensions by $2.48 billion, decreased the intangible pension asset by $440 million and resulted in a net credit to equity of $1.45 billion, which decreased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2004 decreased $325 million from year end 2003 and long term deferred income tax liabilities increased $592 million, primarily due to the elimination of federal and state deferred tax assets that were established in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2004 increased $404 million from year end 2003 mainly due to increases in accounts payable and payroll and benefits payable. The increase in accounts payable resulted mainly from higher raw materials costs and increased purchases of capital assets in late 2004 compared to the same period last year. The increase in payroll and benefits payable was primarily due to liabilities resulting from the profit based union payments that were previously discussed. Long term debt at December 31, 2004, was $1,363 million, $527 million lower than year end 2003. The decrease in debt was primarily due to the retirement of $281 million of USSK long term debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. 43 Table of Contents Employee benefits at December 31, 2004, decreased $257 million from year end 2003. Employee benefits at year end 2003 included the net pension liability related to an additional minimum liability adjustment for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan. In addition, OPEB liabilities decreased primarily because the sum of retiree medical benefit payments made in cash and a $30 million voluntary cash contribution to a trust exceeded the amount of retiree medical expense booked in 2004. Retiree medical expense was $60 million lower in 2004 as compared to 2003 due to recognition of the estimated effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and a cost cap negotiated with the USWA in 2003. For further information, see Estimated Future Benefit Payments in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Additional paid in capital increased by $354 million from the prior year end primarily reflecting U. S. Steels equity offering that was completed in March 2004. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities was $1,400 million in 2004, compared with $577 million in 2003. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items was partially offset by increased working capital requirements. Cash from operating activities in 2004 was reduced by $295 million of voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan, $186 million of OPEB payments, $50 million of payments to a multiemployer pension plan, $44 million of payments to pension plans not funded by trusts and $30 million of contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In 2003, OPEB payments were primarily funded by trusts. The $75 million in voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan in 2003 consisted of timber cutting rights valued at $59 million and $16 million of cash. Further contributions totaling $15 million were made to other smaller pension plans in 2003. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2006. Net cash provided from operating activities of $577 million in 2003 reflected an improvement of $298 million compared to 2002. The improvement resulted mainly from lower working capital requirements. Capital expenditures in 2004 were $579 million, compared with $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Major domestic projects in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills. Major projects at USSE in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $258 million, including $97 million for USSE. Major projects in 2002 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills and various projects at USSK, including continued work on the new tinning and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, completion of the scrap management and hot strip mill reheat furnace upgrade projects, commencement of work on a new dynamo line and installation of a vacuum degassing facility. U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2004, totaled $98 million compared with $23 million at December 31, 2003. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2004, was $257 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $135 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2004, leaving a balance of $22 million under this commitment. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements for further information. 44 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2005 are expected to be approximately $755 million, reflecting approximately $475 million for domestic operations and $280 million for European facilities. Domestic projects include the rebuild of the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, acquisition of mobile and mining equipment and coke oven thru wall repairs at Clairton Works and Gary Works. Projects in Slovakia include initial spending for a new automotive galvanizing line; and continuing work on air emissions reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include completion of the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace and steel production improvements. The preceding statement concerning expected 2005 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisitions in 2003 consisted of $839 million for the National assets, $29 million for USSB and a $37 million cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. The $38 million in 2002 was a cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. Disposal of assets in 2004 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of substantially all of the Real Estate segments remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Disposal of assets in 2003 consisted mainly of proceeds from the Mining Sale, cash collections on notes received in prior years asset disposals, the sale of the former National headquarters building and the sale of U. S. Steels interest in Delta Tubular Processing. Disposal of assets in 2002 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of U. S. Steels investment in stock of VSZ. Restricted cash Net deposits of $32 million in 2003 and $67 million in 2002 were mainly used to collateralize letters of credit to meet financial assurance requirements. Issuance of long term debt in 2003 resulted from the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May, net of deferred financing costs associated with the notes and the inventory facility. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2004 mainly reflected the retirement of long term USSK debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2003 and 2002 was mainly the USSK debt. Preferred stock issued in 2003 reflected net proceeds from the offering of 5 million shares of Series B Preferred. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004. The remaining amount mainly reflected proceeds from stock sales through the exercise of options. The 2003 amount primarily reflected sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. The 2002 amount primarily reflected $192 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in May 2002, as well as sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Dividends paid in 2004 were $39 million, compared with $35 million in 2003 and $19 million in 2002. Payments in all three periods reflected the quarterly dividend rate of five cents per common share. Dividends paid in 2004 also reflected a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share for the Series B Preferred. Dividends paid in 2003 also included an initial dividend of $1.206 per share for the Series B Preferred, which was paid on June 15, 2003, and a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share thereafter. The quarterly dividend rate per common share was increased to eight cents effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Debt and Convertible Preferred Shares Ratings On November 5, 2004, Moodys Investors Service upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating two steps, from B1 to Ba2. On November 12, 2004, Standard & Poors Ratings Services upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating from BB to BB and raised the preferred stock rating from B to B. 45 Table of Contents Liquidity In November 2001, U. S. Steel entered into a five year Receivables Purchase Agreement with financial institutions. U. S. Steel established a wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), which is a consolidated special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity that acquires, on a daily basis, eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries. USSR can sell an undivided interest in these receivables to certain commercial paper conduits. USSR pays the conduits a discount based on the conduits borrowing costs plus incremental fees, certain of which are determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, which increased fundings under the facility to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. Eligible receivables exclude certain obligors, amounts in excess of defined percentages for certain obligors, and amounts past due or due beyond a defined period. In addition, eligible receivables are calculated by deducting certain reserves, which are based on various determinants including concentration, dilution and loss percentages, as well as the credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had more than $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. While the term of the Receivables Purchase Agreement is five years, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed below and other debt obligations, any failure of USSR to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables, and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 23, 2005. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a four year revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by all domestic inventory and related assets (Inventory Facility), including receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The Inventory Facility contained a number of covenants that may have limited U. S. Steels ability to incur debt, make capital expenditures, sell assets, incur liens and make dividend and other restricted payments. The Inventory Facility also included a fixed charge coverage ratio test, which had to be met if availability was less than $100 million. In October 2004, the Inventory Facility was amended and restated to extend its maturity until October 2009, increase advance rates on semi finished and raw materials, reduce certain reserves, and modify pricing terms. In addition, many of the restrictive covenants apply now only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had in excess of $600 million of eligible inventory under the Inventory Facility, and utilized $6 million for letters of credit, reducing availability to $594 million. At December 31, 2004, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. In the third quarter of 2004, USSB entered into a new EUR 9.3 million (which approximated $12.7 million at December 31, 2004) committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility has a term of one year, and can be extended by mutual agreement of the parties for up to two additional one year periods. At December 31, 2004, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes), and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. 46 Table of Contents The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.2 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $118 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2004, an increase of $5 million during 2004, and expects to commit approximately $10 million to $20 million more during 2005. U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2004, in the amount of $42 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as obligations relating to Industrial Development and Environmental Improvement Bonds and Notes in the amount of $472 million and certain lease obligations totaling $190 million that were assumed by U. S. Steel from Marathon, may be declared immediately due and payable. 47 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2004: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents (a) $ 1,021 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSE credit facilities 69 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,184 (a) Excludes $16 million of cash, which resulted from the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership, because it is not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity at December 31, 2004 increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2004, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,373 $ 8 $ 33 $ 379 $ 953 Operating leases(b) 460 118 169 57 116 Capital commitments(c) 355 59 39 257 USSB Commitments 22 3 19 Environmental commitments(c) 123 21 102 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e ) 26 55 29 (e ) Other postretirement benefits (f ) 243 545 475 (f ) Total contractual obligations (g ) $ 475 $ 844 $ 959 (g ) (a) See Note 17 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2005 through 2009 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to 48 Table of Contents pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets which were managed by the Real Estate segment, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit plan in 2005. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $12 million to plans not funded by trusts in 2005. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2004, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 93 $ 65 $ 20 $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 21 4 17 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 28 28 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 25 8 1 14 2 Contingent liabilities: Marathon obligations(a)(d) 42 15 19 8 Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 1,627 1,001 383 152 91 Total commercial commitments $ 1,986 $ 1,093 $ 423 $ 174 $ 296 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of substrate and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In 2003, U. S. Steel entered into two off balance sheet arrangements for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. These operating lease arrangements are with special purpose trusts (SPTs). The SPTs financed the construction of the facilities and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficial owners of the SPTs. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of these entities. There are no guarantees of the obligations of these SPTs by U. S. Steel, and U. S. Steel would incur no significant penalties that would result in the reasonable assurance of continuation of the leases. U. S. Steels transactions with the SPTs are limited to the operating lease agreements, and the associated 49 Table of Contents lease expense is included in cost of revenues on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate these SPTs because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has unconditional supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 4 and Note 18 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 15 year agreement for the supply of electric power at Gary Works in Indiana, expiring in 2011. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of a 161 megawatt steam extraction turbine for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. Gary Works employees operate and maintain the facility and Gary Works supplies the steam for the turbine. This power is the first dispatched source of power to Gary Works. There are no take or pay obligations associated with this requirements contract and U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement results in an increase of approximately $60 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required 50 Table of Contents to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. 51 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Domestic: Capital $ 24 $ 8 $ 4 Compliance Operating & maintenance 241 206 171 Remediation(b) 18 38 36 Total Domestic $ 283 $ 252 $ 211 USSE: Capital $ 97 $ 22 $ 10 Compliance Operating & maintenance 8 10 8 Remediation(b) 3 3 1 Total USSE $ 108 $ 35 $ 19 Total U. S. Steel $ 391 $ 287 $ 230 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 21 percent of total capital expenditures in 2004, 10 percent in 2003 and 5 percent in 2002. Compliance expenditures represented 2 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2004, and 3 percent in 2003 and 2002. Remediation spending during 2002 to 2004 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2004, U. S. Steel accrued $34 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2004, was $123 million. Environmental spending in 2004 totaled $23 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2005. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $128 million in 2005, $69 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2005 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2006, including $90 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured electric cable; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. 53 Table of Contents Outlook for 2005 First quarter 2005 average realized prices for Flat rolled are expected to remain in line with or increase slightly from fourth quarter levels; however, results will be negatively affected by higher costs for raw materials, as well as slightly lower shipments. For full year 2005, Flat rolled shipments are expected to be about 15.4 million tons, reflecting the planned outage at the Gary No. 13 blast furnace. For USSE, first quarter average realized prices are expected to be moderately higher than in the fourth quarter of 2004, with shipments remaining about the same and costs for raw materials increasing significantly. USSE shipments for full year 2005 are projected to increase by about 15 percent to approximately 5.8 million net tons due mainly to higher operating levels at the Serbian facilities following the planned mid year startup of a second blast furnace. Shipments for Tubular in the first quarter of 2005 are expected to be at about the same level as in 2004s fourth quarter, while average realized prices are expected to continue to increase. Tubular announced price increases for certain products ranging from $50 to $250 per ton effective in January 2005. Full year shipments are expected to increase to 1.2 million tons. Costs will increase as a result of annual transfer value adjustments for semi finished steel, which comprehend raw material cost escalation, and higher costs for purchased rounds. First quarter 2005 results for Other Businesses will decline compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 due to normal seasonal effects at iron ore operations in Minnesota. In accordance with the previously announced settlement agreement with the City of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana regarding past years Gary Works personal property taxes, a Lake County appeals board is expected to consider a motion to resolve the appeals in accordance with the proposed settlement in early 2005. If the settlement is approved and becomes final as submitted, U. S. Steel would pay $44 million and would recognize a favorable income effect reflecting the reversal of liabilities accrued in excess of the settlement amount. Total costs in 2005 for domestic defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately the same as in 2004. For further information, see Critical Accounting Estimates Pensions and OPEB. This outlook contains forward looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices, tax settlements and employee benefit costs. Some factors, among others, that could affect market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both domestic operations and USSE include global product demand, prices and mix; global and company steel production levels; plant operating performance; the timing and completion of facility projects; natural gas prices and usage; raw materials availability and prices; changes in environmental, tax and other laws; employee strikes; power outages; legal proceedings regarding the proposed Gary Works tax settlement and U.S. and global economic performance and political developments. Domestic steel shipments and prices could be affected by import levels and actions taken by the U.S. Government and its agencies. Political factors in Europe that may affect USSEs results include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures. Future pension costs will be influenced by the market performance of plan assets, laws and regulations regarding discount rates and other calculations, and other economic factors. Future costs for active and retiree medical benefits will be influenced by medical inflation rates, future laws and regulations and retiree participation levels. Accounting Standards In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R) which addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that do not have sufficient equity investment to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. The Interpretation provides guidance related to identifying variable interest entities and determining whether such entities should be consolidated. It also provides guidance related to the initial and subsequent measurement of assets, liabilities and 54 Table of Contents noncontrolling interests in newly consolidated variable interest entities and requires disclosures for both the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and other beneficiaries of the entity. In accordance with FIN 46R, U. S. Steel consolidated the 1314B Partnership as of January 1, 2004. See further discussion in Note 18 to the Financial statements. In May 2004, FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106 2 (FSP FAS 106 2), Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Drug Act) was issued. FSP FAS 106 2 finalizes the accounting for the Drug Act and specifies that the effect of the Federal subsidy on a benefit plans accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) shall be accounted for as an actuarial experience gain. U. S. Steel accounted for the estimated effects of the Drug Act on its APBO as of December 31, 2003. Estimated savings of $450 million were included as an actuarial gain primarily due to changes in participation assumptions caused by the impact of the Drug Act in combination with the cost cap negotiated with the USWA in May 2003 and due to savings from reduced costs for mineworker participants because it is anticipated that the mineworkers union drug program will qualify for the Federal subsidy. Periodic postretirement benefit costs for 2004 were reduced by $60 million due to the estimated impact of these changes. There may also be significant clarifications of the Drug Act in future years that could significantly alter some or all of U. S. Steels assumptions. Furthermore, the participant withdrawal rates could occur at a different pace than has been assumed and the estimated savings could be greater or less than currently identified. No guidance has been issued regarding the effects of the Drug Act on U. S. Steels liabilities under the Coal Act of 1992, which is currently being accounted for under FAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 151 Inventory Costs (FAS 151) which amends ARB 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expenses, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges. In addition, FAS 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of FAS 151 are effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to inventory costs incurred on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect this Statement to have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, (FAS 123R) which is a revision of FAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, (FAS 123) and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. This Statement applies to U. S. Steel for all awards granted on or after July 1, 2005, and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after July 1, 2005, for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for pro forma disclosures. U. S. Steel expects the effect of adopting this Statement on 2005 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $15 million. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 152, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 66 and 67. This Statement amends FASB Statements No. 66 and 67 in association with the issuance of SOP 04 2, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, which applies to all real estate time sharing transactions. This Statement is effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to any real estate time sharing transactions occurring on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not have any real estate time sharing arrangements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. This Statement eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29 and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. This Statement specifies that a nonmonetary 55 Table of Contents exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of this Statement are effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this Statement prospectively to nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring on or after January 1, 2006. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, (FSP FAS 109 1) which states that the FASB staff believes that the qualified production activities deduction provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109 (FAS 109.) This FSP was effective upon issuance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which states that the FASB staff believes that the lack of clarification of certain provisions within the Act and the timing of the enactment necessitate a practical exemption to the FAS 109 requirement to reflect in the period of enactment the effect of a new tax law. Accordingly, an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying FAS 109. See Note 13 to the Financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas, heating oil and nonferrous metals and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. 56 Table of Contents Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pre tax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Decrease of(a) 2004 2003 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Zinc 2.9 7.2 1.2 3.1 Tin NA NA 0.0 0.1 Natural Gas 1.8 4.4 0.9 2.2 (a) The definition of a derivative instrument includes certain fixed price physical commodity contracts. Such instruments are included in the above table. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2004, may cause future pre tax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $4 million in 2004, compared to a gain of $1 million in 2003 and a loss of $6 million in 2002. These gains and losses were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For additional quantitative information relating to derivative commodity instruments, see Note 25 to the Financial Statements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2004 and 2003 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) As of December 31 2004 2003 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFair Value(c) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFairValue(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 8 $ $ 16 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f) $ 1,419 $ 50 $ 1,993 $ 90 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 23 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. (d) For additional information, see Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (e) Includes amounts due within one year. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 17 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels portfolio of long term debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $50 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases 57 Table of Contents in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $14.3 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $47.0 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2004 euro forward rates would result in a $6.1 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 58 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. U. S. Steel has approximately 48,000 active employees worldwide and provides defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits to approximately 84,000 retirees. Domestic integrated producers that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings and mini mills do not have comparable fixed retiree obligations. USSK and USSB conduct business primarily in Central and Western Europe and are subject to market conditions in those areas which are influenced by many of the same factors that affect domestic markets, as well as matters peculiar to international markets such as quotas and tariffs. USSK and USSB are affected by the worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the cyclical nature of demand for steel products and the sensitivity of that demand to worldwide general economic conditions. In particular, USSK and USSB are subject to economic conditions, environmental regulations and political factors in Europe, which if changed could negatively affect results of operations and cash flow. These economic conditions, environmental regulations and political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions (see Environmental Matters for a discussion regarding carbon dioxide emissions limits, which are applicable to European Union (EU) member countries), and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSK and USSB are affected by the volatility of raw materials prices. USSK and USSB are susceptible to these risks as they arise in Slovakia and the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, respectively. USSK is subject to foreign currency exchange risks because its revenues are primarily in euros and its costs are primarily in U.S. dollars and Slovak koruna. USSB is subject to foreign currency exchange risks because its revenues are primarily in euros and Serbian dinars and its costs are primarily in U.S. dollars and Serbian dinars. In response to the termination of the U.S. Section 201 proceedings, on December 5, 2003, the European Commission announced the termination of the definitive safeguard measures imposed on September 27, 2002. The EU safeguard proceedings, which were similar to the Section 201 proceedings, involved quota/tariff measures restricting the import of certain steel products into the EU. USSE had been impacted by the quota/tariff measures on four products: non alloy hot rolled coils, hot rolled strip, hot rolled sheet and cold rolled flat products. Annual shipment quotas were set for all four products and tariffs imposed if the quotas were exceeded. The measures were scheduled to expire on March 28, 2005; however, they would have ceased to impact USSK upon Slovakias accession into the EU, which occurred on May 1, 2004. During 2003, safeguard measures, similar to the EU measures, were also imposed by Poland (on March 8) and Hungary (on March 28). These measures ceased to affect USSK upon EU accession by Slovakia, Poland and Hungary on May 1, 2004. Flat rolled The acquisition of the assets of National on May 20, 2003, increased U. S. Steels stated annual raw steel production capability for domestic operations from 12.8 millions tons to 19.4 million tons. Raw steel production was 17.3 million tons in 2004, compared with 14.9 million tons in 2003, including results from the National assets following the acquisition, and 11.5 million tons in 2002. Raw steel production averaged 89 percent of capability in 2004, compared with 88 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the capability of National on a prorata basis, and 90 percent of capability in 2002. All steel produced in U. S. Steels domestic facilities is continuous cast. Flat rolled shipments were 15.6 million tons in 2004, 13.5 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from the facilities acquired from National, and 9.9 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 3 percent of Flat rolleds shipments in 2004, and 4 percent in 2003 and 2002. 11 Table of Contents Flat rolled produces sheets, tin mill products, strip mill plate and coke. Sheet products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated. Flat rolleds sheet customer base includes service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), construction and appliance customers. Flat rolled also supplies a full line of tin plate and tin free steel products, primarily used in the container industry. U. S. Steel produces plate in coil on the hot strip mill at Gary Works, which is further processed at the Feralloy Processing Company (FPC) joint venture. The majority of coke produced at the integrated steel plants is used to support Flat rolled operations; however, some coke from Clairton Works and the 1314B Partnership is sold to trade customers. Throughout 2004, U. S. Steel operated under a force majeure declaration to its coke customers due to U. S. Steels inability to obtain adequate supplies of specific types of coal to meet all the specification requirements of customers. U. S. Steel declared force majeure in early 2005 as coal supplies to Clairton Works were disrupted due to river lock closures resulting from flooding. U. S. Steel has long standing relationships with many of its customers, as do its joint ventures. With the exception of the Fairfield pipe mill, the operating results of all the facilities within U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills are included in Flat rolled. These facilities include Gary Works, Great Lake Works, Mon Valley Works, Granite City Works and Fairfield Works. Gary Works, located at Gary, Indiana, has annual raw steel production capability of 7.5 million tons. Gary Works has four coke batteries, four blast furnaces, three basic oxygen converters, three Q BOP vessels, a vacuum degassing unit and four continuous slab casters. Gary Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells several coke by products. Finishing facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, three temper mills, a double cold reduction line, two tin coating lines, an electrolytic galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets and tin mill products. Gary Works also produces strip mill plate. The Midwest Plant and East Chicago Tin are operated as part of Gary Works. The Midwest Plant, located in Portage, Indiana, finishes hot rolled bands. Midwest facilities include a pickling line, two cold reduction mills, two temper mills, a double cold reduction mill, two hot dip galvanizing lines, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. Principal products include tin mill products and hot dip galvanized, cold rolled and electrical lamination sheets. Midwest was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. East Chicago Tin is located in East Chicago, Indiana. Facilities include a pickling line, which was acquired in late 2003 in a non monetary exchange with International Steel Group, a cold reduction mill, a temper mill, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. Great Lakes Works, located in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan, has annual raw steel production capability of approximately 3.8 million tons. Great Lakes facilities include three blast furnaces, two basic oxygen converters, a vacuum degassing unit, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a high speed pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, a temper mill, an electrolytic galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled, electrolytic galvanized and hot dip galvanized sheets. Great Lakes Works was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. Mon Valley Works consists of the Edgar Thomson Plant, located in Braddock, Pennsylvania; the Irvin Plant, located in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania; the Fairless Plant, located in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania; and Clairton Works, located in Clairton, Pennsylvania. Mon Valley Works has annual raw steel production capability of 2.9 million tons. Facilities at the Edgar Thomson Plant include two blast furnaces, two basic oxygen converters, a vacuum degassing unit and a slab caster. Irvin Plant facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, a cold reduction mill, a temper mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. The only operational facility at the Fairless Plant is a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, as well as coke produced at Clairton Works. Clairton Works is comprised of nine coke batteries owned and operated by U. S. Steel, one coke battery leased and operated by U. S. Steel and an additional two coke batteries that are operated by U. S. Steel for the 1314B Partnership, which is discussed below. Clairton (including the 1314B Partnership) produced 4.3 million tons of coke in 2004 and 4.5 million tons in 2003 and 2002. Approximately 35 percent of annual production (including the 1314B Partnership) was consumed by U. S. Steel facilities in 2004 and the remainder was sold to other domestic steel producers. Several coke by products are sold to the chemicals and raw materials industries. 12 Table of Contents U. S. Steel is the sole general partner of and owns an equity interest in the 1314B Partnership. As general partner, U. S. Steel is responsible for operating and selling coke and by products from the partnerships two coke batteries located at U. S. Steels Clairton Works. U. S. Steels share of profits and losses during 2004 was 45.75 percent. The partnership at times had operating cash shortfalls in 2004, 2003 and 2002 that were funded with loans from U. S. Steel. There were no outstanding loans with the partnership at December 31, 2004, 2003 or 2002. U. S. Steel may dissolve the partnership under certain circumstances including if it is required to make equity investments or loans in excess of $150 million to fund such shortfalls. As the primary beneficiary of the partnership, U. S. Steel consolidates the results of the 1314B Partnership in its financial statements. Granite City Works, located in Granite City, Illinois, has annual raw steel production capability of approximately 2.8 million tons. Granite Citys facilities include two coke batteries, two blast furnaces, two basic oxygen converters, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Granite City Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells several coke by products. Principal products include hot rolled, hot dipped galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets. Granite City Works was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. Fairfield Works, located in Fairfield, Alabama, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.4 million tons. Fairfield Works facilities included in Flat rolled are a blast furnace, three Q BOP vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, a slab caster, a rounds caster, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, two temper/skin pass mills, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, and rounds for Tubular. ProCoil, a wholly owned subsidiary located in Canton, Michigan, slits and cuts steel coils to desired specifications, provides laser welding services and warehouses material to service automotive customers. ProCoil was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. U. S. Steel participates directly and through subsidiaries in a number of joint ventures which are included in Flat rolled. All such joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method. Certain of the joint ventures and other investments are described below, all of which are 50 percent owned except FPC, in which U. S. Steel holds a 49 percent interest. For financial information regarding joint ventures and other investments, see Note 14 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel and Pohang Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (POSCO) of South Korea participate in a joint venture, USS POSCO Industries (USS POSCO), located in Pittsburg, California. The joint venture markets high quality sheet and tin mill products, principally in the western United States. USS POSCO produces cold rolled sheets, galvanized sheets, tin plate and tin free steel from hot bands principally provided by U. S. Steel and POSCO. Total shipments by USS POSCO were 1.4 million tons in 2004, and 1.2 million tons in 2003 and 2002. U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. of Japan participate in a joint venture, PRO TEC Coating Company (PRO TEC). PRO TEC owns and operates two hot dip galvanizing lines in Leipsic, Ohio, which primarily serve the automotive industry. PRO TECs annual capability is approximately 1.2 million tons. Total shipments by PRO TEC were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 2003 and 2002. U. S. Steel and Severstal North America, Inc. participate in Double Eagle Steel Coating Company (DESCO), a joint venture which operates an electrogalvanizing facility located in Dearborn, Michigan. The facility can coat both sides of sheet steel with free zinc or zinc alloy coatings, primarily for use in the automotive industry. Availability of the facility is shared equally by the partners. On December 15, 2001, production at DESCO was halted due to a fire. The facility restarted operations on September 10, 2002, with full operating levels achieved by December 2002. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, DESCO produced 650 thousand tons, 683 thousand tons and 163 thousand tons, respectively, of electrogalvanized steel. U. S. Steel and International Steel Group, which is being acquired by Mittal Steel Co. NV, participate in the Double G joint venture, a hot dip galvanizing and Galvalume&reg; facility located near Jackson, Mississippi, which primarily serves the construction industry. U. S. Steels interest was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. Double Gs production was 316 thousand tons in 2004 and 288 thousand tons in 2003. 13 Table of Contents U. S. Steel and Worthington Industries, Inc. participate in a joint venture known as Worthington Specialty Processing, which operates a steel processing facility in Jackson, Michigan. The plant is operated by Worthington Industries, Inc. The facility contains state of the art technology capable of processing master steel coils into both slit coils and sheared first operation blanks including rectangles, trapezoids, parallelograms and chevrons. It is designed to meet specifications for the automotive, appliance, furniture and metal door industries. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, Worthington Specialty Processing shipments were 326 thousand tons, 282 thousand tons and 250 thousand tons, respectively. U. S. Steel and Olympic Steel, Inc. participate in a joint venture to process laser welded sheet steel blanks at a facility in Van Buren, Michigan. The joint venture conducts business as Olympic Laser Processing. Laser welded blanks are used in the automotive industry for a number of body fabrication applications. Olympic Laser Processing shipped 2.1 million parts in 2004 and 2003, and 1.7 million parts in 2002. FPC is a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Feralloy Corporation that converts coiled hot strip mill plate into sheared and flattened plates for shipment to customers. The plant, located in Portage, Indiana, has a temper mill linked to a cut to length leveling line. The line provides stress free, leveled product with a superior surface finish. FPC provides processing services to the joint venture partners and other steel consumers and service centers. FPC had annual revenues of $5.1 million in 2004, $3.4 million in 2003 and $3.6 million in 2002. Chrome Deposit Corporation (CDC) is a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Court Holdings. The joint venture reconditions finishing work rolls, which require grinding, chrome plating, and or texturing. The rolls are used on rolling mills to provide superior finishes on steel sheets. CDC has 7 locations across the United States, with all locations near major steel mills. In 2004, 2003, and 2002, CDC had annual revenues of $19.9 million, $19.0 million, and $18.0 million, respectively. U. S. Steel, through its wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Export Company de Mexico, along with Feralloy Mexico, S.R.L. de C.V., participates in a joint venture, Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V. (Acero Prime). Acero Prime operates in Mexico with facilities in San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, and a leased warehouse in Toluca. Acero Prime provides slitting, warehousing and logistical services. U. S. Steel also owns an automotive technical center in Troy, Michigan. This 43,000 square foot facility brings together automotive sales, service, distribution and logistics services, product technology and applications research in one location. Much of U. S. Steels work in developing new grades of steel to meet the demands of automakers for high strength, light weight and formable materials is carried out at this location. U. S. Steel also carries out a wide range of applied research, development and technical support functions at a leased Research and Technology Center located in Monroeville, Pennsylvania. In December 2004, U. S. Steel, through a consolidated entity established to facilitate the purchase and sale of certain fixed assets, purchased a building in Munhall, Pennsylvania. It is anticipated that the research, development and technical support functions currently performed in Monroeville will be relocated to this new facility sometime during 2006. USSE The USSE segment consists of USSK, USSB and several subsidiaries of each. USSK, headquartered in Kosice, Slovakia, has annual steelmaking capability of 5.0 million tons and produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. In 2004, USSK raw steel production was 4.5 million tons, compared to 4.7 million tons in 2003 and 4.4 million tons in 2002. USSK has two coke batteries, three blast furnaces, two steel shops with two vessels each, a vacuum degassing unit, a dual strand caster attached to each steel shop, a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, a temper mill, a temper/double cold reduction mill, two hot dip galvanizing lines, two tin coating lines, three dynamo lines and a color coating line. During 2002, USSK started up the vacuum degassing facility to increase its capability to produce steel grades required for high value applications. In 2003, USSK started up a continuous annealing line and the second tin coating line to expand its supply of tin mill products. In 2004, USSK started up a third dynamo line. USSKs steel shipments totaled 3.9 million tons in 2004, 4.7 million tons in 2003, including those realized under toll conversion agreements with Sartid, and 4.0 million tons in 2002. 14 Table of Contents In addition, USSK owns 100 percent of Walzwerk Finow GmbH, located in eastern Germany, which produces and ships about 90 thousand tons per year of welded precision steel tubes and cold rolled specialty shaped sections from both cold rolled and hot rolled product supplied primarily by USSK. USSK also has facilities for manufacturing heating radiators, spiral welded pipe and refractories. A majority of product sales by USSK are denominated in euros and the majority of spending is in U.S. dollars and Slovak koruna. This results in exposure to currency fluctuations. U. S. Steel continually evaluates the currency mix of USSKs cash flows. Significant changes in currency mix could result in a change in the functional currency from U.S. dollars to euros in the future. In September 2003, U. S. Steel acquired USSB. The facilities acquired include an integrated plant in Smederevo which has two blast furnaces, three basic oxygen converters, a vacuum degassing unit, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, a temper mill and a temper/double cold reduction mill. Other facilities purchased include a tin mill in Sabac, a limestone mine in Kucevo, a river port and a foundry, all located in Serbia. U. S. Steels technical assessment determined that, with improved operating practices and an extensive rehabilitation and capital spending program, USSB has annual raw steel design production capability of about 2.4 million tons. During 2004, capability utilization averaged 48 percent, raw steel production was 1.2 million tons and steel shipments totaled 1.1 million tons. In 2003, following the acquisition, USSBs raw steel production was 146 thousand tons and steel shipments totaled 150 thousand tons. A second blast furnace at USSB is expected to be returned to production in the third quarter of 2005. A majority of product sales by USSB are denominated in euros and Serbian dinars and the majority of spending is in U.S. dollars and Serbian dinars. This results in exposure to currency fluctuations. The U.S. dollar is currently the functional currency. Tubular U. S. Steel produces both seamless and ERW tubular products. Seamless products are produced on a mill located at Fairfield Works in Fairfield, Alabama, and on two mills located in Lorain, Ohio. ERW products are produced on a mill located in McKeesport, Pennsylvania, which is operated by Camp Hill Corporation. U. S. Steel has the capability to produce 1.9 million tons of tubular products in the 5 million ton tubular markets it serves. Tubular shipments were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 0.9 million tons in 2003 and 0.8 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 9 percent of Tubulars shipments in 2004, 15 percent in 2003 and 17 percent in 2002. The transfer value for rounds supplied by Flat rolled is set at the beginning of the year based on expected total production costs. Real Estate Real Estate manages U. S. Steels real estate assets, which include approximately 200,000 acres of surface rights primarily in 5 states. Income is derived mainly from the sale of developed and undeveloped land and real estate leases. Real estate development and sales occur over approximately 25,000 acres of residential, commercial and industrial development and brownfield industrial redevelopment principally in Alabama, Pennsylvania and Maryland. Undeveloped land sales occur primarily in Alabama and Minnesota. Real estate lease income is derived from various leases primarily in Pennsylvania and Alabama. Straightline Straightline specialized in the distribution of processed, flat rolled steel products to companies of all sizes that did not typically buy steel products directly from steel producers. Straightline was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. As of January 1, 2004, the residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Other Businesses U. S. Steel controls domestic iron ore properties having proven and probable iron ore reserves in grades that can be processed by U. S. Steels domestic operations. At year end 2004, these reserves totaled approximately 15 Table of Contents 969 million short tons of iron ore concentrate equivalents available from low grade iron bearing materials. All reserves are located in Minnesota. Approximately 30 percent of these reserves are owned and the remaining 70 percent are leased. Current lease expiration dates vary from five to sixty years in the future, with the largest (covering 36 percent of leased reserves) expiring in 2058. Leases are routinely revised and extended. U. S. Steels iron ore pellet operations at Mt. Iron, Minnesota (Minntac) produced 16.9 million tons of iron ore pellets in 2004, 15.8 million tons in 2003 and 16.7 million tons in 2002. Keetac produced 6.0 million tons of iron ore pellets in 2004 and 2.9 million tons in 2003, following the acquisition from National. Iron ore pellet shipments were 24.3 million tons in 2004, 18.2 million tons in 2003, including shipments from Keetac following the acquisition, and 16.2 million tons in 2002. U. S. Steel owns 100 percent of Transtar, Inc. Transtar and its subsidiaries (the Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company in Illinois and Indiana; the Lake Terminal Railroad Company in Ohio; Union Railroad Company and McKeesport Connecting Railroad Company in Pennsylvania; and the Birmingham Southern Railroad Company, Fairfield Southern Company, Inc., Mobile River Terminal Company, and Warrior and Gulf Navigation Company, all located in Alabama) comprise substantially all of U. S. Steels transportation business. Transtar provides rail and barge transportation services to a number of U. S. Steels domestic facilities as well as other domestic customers in the steel, coal, chemicals, oil refining and forest production industries. U. S. Steel also owns 100 percent of Delray, a small transportation company located in Michigan, which was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. UEC Technologies LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of U. S. Steel, sells technical services worldwide to the steel, mining, chemical and related industries. Together with its subsidiary companies, it provides engineering and consulting services for facility expansions and modernizations, operating improvement projects and environmental projects. Raw Materials and Energy Iron Ore With the iron ore facilities at Minntac and Keetac, U. S. Steel has the capability of being completely self sufficient for its domestic iron ore requirements to support blast furnace production. Any surplus pellet production is sold to domestic and foreign consumers, including USSE. Depending on market conditions and transportation costs, internal iron ore requirements may be satisfied by the purchase of pellets from third parties, permitting the sale of additional pellets on the open market. USSE purchases most of its iron ore requirements from third parties, but has purchased iron ore from U. S. Steels domestic iron ore facilities. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of iron ore, adequate to meet USSEs needs, are available at competitive market prices. The main sources of iron ore for USSE are Russia and Ukraine, with supplemental supply from Venezuela and Brazil. Coal All of U. S. Steels domestic coal requirements are purchased from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that under normal circumstances supplies of coal, adequate to meet its domestic needs, are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Coal supplies were disrupted during late 2003 and throughout 2004 largely due to the declarations of force majeure by several of U. S. Steels major coal suppliers. Supplies were disrupted in early 2005 due to river lock closures resulting from flooding. U. S. Steel has entered into contracts at competitive market prices for its domestic coal requirements in 2005. USSKs coal requirements are purchased from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of coal, adequate to meet USSKs needs, are available from third parties at competitive market prices. The main sources of coal for USSK include Poland, the Czech Republic, the United States and Russia. USSB, which purchases coke, does not currently require coal to support its operations. 16 Table of Contents Coke Domestically, U. S. Steel operates cokemaking facilities at its Clairton, Pennsylvania; Gary, Indiana; and Granite City, Illinois locations. These owned and or operated facilities have the capability to supply all of U. S. Steels domestic metallurgical coke requirements for blast furnace production. Following its purchase of National in May 2003, U. S. Steel operated, pursuant to an Operations and Maintenance Agreement, a cokemaking facility owned by EES Coke Battery, LLC (EES), located at U. S. Steels Great Lakes Works. Effective October 1, 2004, the Operations and Maintenance Agreement with EES was terminated and EES assumed responsibility for operating its cokemaking facility. Pursuant to a Coke Sales Agreement with EES, U. S. Steel purchased 100 percent of the output of the EES cokemaking facility during 2004 and will purchase a portion of such output during 2005. Blast furnace coal injection processes at Gary Works, Great Lakes Works and Fairfield Works continue to reduce U. S. Steels domestic coke requirements. USSK operates a cokemaking facility that primarily serves the steelmaking operations at USSK. Depending on market conditions and operational schedules, USSK may purchase small quantities of coke on the open market and may also supply a portion of USSBs needs. Blast furnace coal injection processes at USSK continue to reduce its coke requirements. USSB purchases predominantly all of its coke requirements from third party suppliers. While the coke market is expected to continue to be constrained in 2005, U. S. Steel believes that supplies of coke, adequate to meet USSKs and USSBs needs, are available at competitive market prices. The main sources of coke for USSK and USSB in 2005 include Poland, Ukraine, Russia, Bosnia and China. Limestone All domestic limestone requirements are purchased from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of limestone, adequate to meet its domestic needs, are readily available from third parties at competitive market prices. All limestone requirements for USSK are purchased from a third party under a long term contract. USSB sources approximately 50 percent of its limestone requirements from third party suppliers with the balance coming from production from a limestone mine under its direct control. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of limestone, adequate to meet USSBs needs, are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Scrap and Other Materials Supplies of steel scrap, tin, zinc and other alloying and coating materials required to fulfill U. S. Steels requirements for domestic and European operations are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Generally, approximately 40 percent of U. S. Steels scrap requirements is generated through its normal operations. U. S. Steel utilizes some hedging and derivative purchasing practices with regard to domestic requirements for tin and zinc. Natural Gas U. S. Steel purchases all of its domestic natural gas requirements from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of natural gas, adequate to meet its domestic needs, are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Currently, about 60 percent of U. S. Steels domestic natural gas purchases are based on solicited bids, on a monthly basis, from various vendors; approximately 30 percent are made through long term contracts; and the remainder are made daily. U. S. Steel utilizes some hedging and derivative purchasing practices with regard to domestic requirements for natural gas because of the volatility of natural gas markets. USSK and USSB purchase their natural gas requirements from third parties under annual contracts. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of natural gas, adequate to meet USSKs and USSBs needs, are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Environmental Matters U. S. Steel maintains a comprehensive environmental policy overseen by the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of the U. S. Steel Board of Directors. The Environmental Affairs organization has the 17 Table of Contents responsibility to ensure that U. S. Steels operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that are in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The Executive Environmental Committee, which is comprised of officers of U. S. Steel, is charged with reviewing its overall performance with various environmental compliance programs. Also, U. S. Steel, largely through the American Iron and Steel Institute, continues its involvement in the development of various air, water and waste regulations with federal, state and local governments concerning the implementation of cost effective pollution reduction strategies. The domestic businesses of U. S. Steel are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act (CAA) with respect to air emissions; the Clean Water Act (CWA) with respect to water discharges; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances. In addition, all states where U. S. Steel operates have similar laws dealing with the same matters. These laws are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable due in part to the fact that certain implementing regulations for laws such as RCRA and the CAA have not yet been promulgated or in certain instances are undergoing revision. These environmental laws and regulations, particularly the CAA, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and the cost of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet CAA obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be adversely affected. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSKs environmental expenses in 2004 included usage fees, permit fees and or penalties totaling approximately $6 million. There are no legal proceedings pending against USSK involving environmental matters. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First 18 Table of Contents Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently less restrictive than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. The 1997 Kyoto Global Climate Change Agreement produced by the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, which would have required restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the United States, has not been ratified by the U.S. Senate, and it appears unlikely that it will be implemented domestically in the near future. It is unclear what international action will be taken concerning greenhouse gases or the economic impact of such programs; however, inter government discussions continue. Air The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a federally mandated operating permit program and enhanced civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. The principal impact of the CAA on U. S. Steel is on the cokemaking and primary steelmaking operations of U. S. Steel, as described in this section. The CAA requires the regulation of hazardous air pollutants and development and promulgation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) Standards. It was determined in 1995 that the Chrome Electroplating MACT did not apply to steel mill sources; however, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) stated that MACT standards applicable to these sources would be forthcoming. To date, there has been no action taken. Potentially affected U. S. Steel facilities are the electrolytic tinning lines at Gary Works and the tin free steel lines at East Chicago Tin and the Midwest Plant. The EPA finalized MACT standards for integrated iron and steel plants on May 20, 2003, that require compliance by May 22, 2006. The taconite iron ore processing MACT was finalized on October 30, 2003, and requires compliance by October 30, 2006. U. S. Steel anticipates that additional emissions control equipment will be needed to comply with the taconite iron ore processing MACT at Minntac and Keetac. Costs associated with compliance with these MACT standards are included in the capital expenditures disclosed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. The CAA specifically addressed the regulation and control of coke oven batteries. The National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants for coke oven batteries was finalized in October 1993, setting forth the MACT standard and, as an alternative, a Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) standard. Effective January 1998, U. S. Steel elected to comply with the LAER standards. U. S. Steel believes it will be able to meet the current LAER standards. The LAER standards will be further revised in 2010 and additional health risk based standards are expected to be adopted in 2020. The EPA finalized the Phase II Coke MACT for pushing, quenching and battery stacks on April 14, 2003, that requires compliance by April 14, 2006. U. S. Steel is in the process of developing an estimate of the cost to comply. 19 Table of Contents In September 1997, the EPA adopted revisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone and particulate matter, which are significantly more stringent than prior standards. The EPA is also developing regulations to address Regional Haze. The impact of these revised standards could be significant to U. S. Steel, but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated until the final regulations are promulgated and, more importantly, the states implement their State Implementation Plans covering their standards. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains the necessary discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts its operations to be in compliance with such permits. For additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 22,000 domestically and approximately 26,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented 20 Table of Contents by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in February 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Represented employees at USSB are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. All other filings are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the Securities and Exchange Commissions web site, the Internet address of which is www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on revenues and income (loss) of the reportable segments and Other Businesses and on revenues and other income and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 5 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 57 and F 58. 21 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Olympic Laser Processing(b) Van Buren, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Pipe Mills Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar and Delray Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 22 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Granite City, Illinois, which had been subject to a lease through 2012, was purchased in June 2004. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 215 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 23 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) Approximately 4 percent did not specify any damages sought at all, approximately 6 percent alleged damages of $1.0 million or less, another 0.6 percent alleged damages between $2.0 million and $10.0 million, and 0.4 percent alleged damages over $10 million. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 17,100 active claims outstanding. In 2002, U. S. Steel settled 1,135 claims for a total of approximately $700,000, and had a total of 2,662 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and 842 new claims filed. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that 24 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2004, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 20 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 8 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 10 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of sharing in any final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In 1988, U. S. Steel and two other PRPs (Bethlehem Steel Corporation and William Fiore) agreed to the issuance of an administrative order by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to undertake emergency removal work at the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. The cost of such removal, which has been completed, was approximately $4.2 million, of which U. S. Steel paid $3.4 million. EPA indicated that further remediation of this site would be required. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. After a Feasibility Study (FS) by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) and submission of a conceptual remedial action plan in 2001 by U. S. Steel, U. S. Steel submitted a revised conceptual remedial action plan on May 31, 2002. U. S. Steel and PADEP signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible 25 Table of Contents for remediation of this site. On March 18, 2003, PADEP notified U. S. Steel that the public comment period was concluded and the Consent Order and Agreement is final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $7.0 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from EPA requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/FS. The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project based on the groups selection from the range of alternatives presented in the FS is estimated to be $6.4 million. Of that total, U. S. Steels allocable share among the eight PRPs is approximately $1.0 million. In addition, U. S. Steels share of PRP group costs is expected to be less than $100,000 in 2005. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities The following is a discussion of other remediation activities at the major domestic U. S. Steel facilities: There are 39 additional sites related to U. S. Steel where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 4 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 17 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 5 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. Another 4 sites, including the Grand Calumet River remediation at Gary Works, the closure of hazardous waste sites at Gary Works, the claim for investigation, restoration and compensation of injuries to sediments in the east branch of the Grand Calumet River near Gary Works, and corrective action and groundwater investigation at Gary Works, have or are expected to have costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation in excess of $5 million. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. In 1999, U. S. Steel paid civil penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs. In addition, U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with NPDES requirements. The sediment remediation project is an approved final interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works. As of December 31, 2004, project costs have amounted to $51.5 million with another $100,000 presently projected to complete work under the approved sediment remediation plan. A Dredge Completion Report was submitted to EPA on March 29, 2004. EPA responded with written comments on the report. In response, U. S. Steel conducted additional sampling of river sediments in a portion of the dredge project area. Based on the results of the additional sediment sampling, U. S. Steel is considering additional dredging that would include additional substantial bank stabilization measures. Negotiations to have this additional work considered as a final measure are proceeding. The additional dredging and bank stabilization is anticipated to cost approximately $9.0 million. At the conclusion of the dredge project, the Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) will remain available and could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective 26 Table of Contents measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to the Administrative Order on Consent for corrective action. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $4.9 million. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River, costs of which are estimated to be $2.4 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property. The D2 disposal site and a nearby refuse area will be closed collectively. Total costs to close D2, D5, T2 and the refuse area are estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The public trustees completed a preassessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have determined to perform a Natural Resources Damages Assessment. U. S. Steel was identified as a PRP along with 15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. U. S. Steel and eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The trustees notified the public of their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. In 2000, the trustees concluded their assessment of sediment injuries, which included a technical review of environmental conditions. The PRP joint defense group has proposed terms for the settlement of this claim, which have been endorsed by representatives of the trustees and EPA to be included in a consent decree that U. S. Steel expects will resolve this claim. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs, and obtained an 8 acre parcel of land that has been transferred to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for addition to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Park owned by the National Park Service. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement has been executed by the parties and lodged with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana on August 20, 2004. Concurrent with this lodging of the Consent Decree, the United States of America filed its complaint titled United States of America v. Atlantic Richfield, et. al. asserting liability for its claim against the settling parties. In December 2004, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) filed a motion with the court that requested approval and entry of the consent decree. On October 23, 1998, a final Administrative Order on Consent was issued by EPA addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. The Current Conditions Report, U. S. Steels first deliverable, was submitted to EPA in January 1997 and was approved by EPA in 1998. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans and a self implementing interim measure have been submitted to EPA for approval. Two other self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $14.9 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations and the submitted work plans is estimated to be $6.4 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to present. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $424,000. 27 Table of Contents Fairfield Works In December 1995, U. S. Steel reached an agreement in principle with EPA and DOJ with respect to alleged RCRA violations at Fairfield Works. A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and DOJ and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved for the site on September 16, 2002. Field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel is currently preparing a Phase I RFI Report for submission to ADEM in early 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $414,000. In addition, U. S. Steel is developing a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. Lower Opossum Creek is approximately 4.5 miles of the Opossum Creek Area of Concern. U. S. Steel is investigating Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the investigation costs. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of this investigation and costs to implement sediment remediation to be $823,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $478,000. Lorain Pipe Mills In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe), was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. USS/Kobe and EPA commenced settlement negotiations in July 1999. In August 1999, the steelmaking and bar producing operations of USS/Kobe were combined with companies controlled by Blackstone Capital Partners II to form Republic. The tubular operations of USS/Kobe were transferred to a newly formed entity, Lorain Tubular Company, LLC (Lorain Tubular), which operated as a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe until December 31, 1999, when U. S. Steel purchased all of Kobes interest in Lorain Tubular. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Pipe Mills. U. S. Steel and EPA have agreed upon terms of settlement that include a cash penalty for U. S. Steel of $100,000 plus a supplemental environmental project to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Negotiations on the final terms and conditions of the consent decree are ongoing. Most of the matters raised by EPA relate to Republics facilities; however, air discharges from U. S. Steels No. 3 seamless pipe mill were also cited and U. S. Steel will be responsible for conducting a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. U. S. Steel will be responsible only for matters relating to its facilities. Issues related to Republic have been resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works U. S. Steel has agreed to the terms of a consent decree that will include the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the BOP; a civil penalty of $950,000; and a supplemental environmental project at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Great Lakes Works continues to identify and evaluate potential operating practices and facility improvements to reduce emissions. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $12.9 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through December 31, 2004. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $363,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. 28 Table of Contents Geneva Works In November 1989, the Utah Department of Environmental Quality issued a permit to U. S. Steel for the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments including facility wide corrective action at U. S. Steels former Geneva Works. The permit was administratively extended until May 14, 2004, when it was reissued to U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company (Geneva), the site owner. The permit allocates responsibility for corrective action between U. S. Steel and Geneva. U. S. Steel has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations on some areas of the facility for which U. S. Steel has responsibility under the permit. The remaining costs to prepare these work plans, implement field investigations and continue post closure care on the three hazardous waste impoundments are estimated to be approximately $5.6 million. On June 2, 2004, Geneva filed a motion in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Utah to approve the amendment and assumption of the 1987 Asset Sales Agreement, the acceptance of the permit and the retention of a remediation contractor. On July 7, 2004, the motion was heard and granted providing for Genevas continuing involvement and funding of the remediation required by the permit. Other In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The site was owned by Armour Agriculture Chemical Company (now named Viad) from 1912 to 1968. U. S. Steel owned the site from 1968 to 1986 and sold the site to LaRoche Industries in 1986. The agreed order allocated responsibility for assessment and cleanup costs as follows: Viad 48 percent, U. S. Steel 26 percent and LaRoche 26 percent; and LaRoche was appointed to be the lead party responsible for conducting the cleanup. In March 2001, U. S. Steel was notified that LaRoche had filed for protection under bankruptcy law. On August 23, 2001, the allocation of responsibility for this site assessment and cleanup and the cost allocation was approved by the bankruptcy court in the LaRoche bankruptcy. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $801,000, based on the allocation factor of 26 percent. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas. The site is a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. U. S. Steel agreed in a Consent Order before KDHE, signed April 7, 2003, with KDHE and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Under that agreement, U. S. Steel and SSB each bear a 50 percent share of the costs of those responsibilities. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.2 million. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2005, are as follows: John J. Connelly 58 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 56 Executive Vice PresidentOperations Gretchen R. Haggerty 49 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer Christopher J. Navetta 56 President, U. S. Steel Kosice, s.r.o. Dan D. Sandman 56 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 55 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 57 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 50 President and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 55. As of January 31, 2005, there were 31,747 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2004, no unregistered shares were issued. 30 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2004(a) 2003 2002 2001(b) 2000(b) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues and other income(c)(d) $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 $ 6,375 $ 6,132 Income (loss) from operations(e) 1,580 (730 ) 128 (405 ) 104 Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) 1,077 (406 ) 61 (218 ) (21 ) Net income (loss)(e) $ 1,091 $ (463 ) $ 61 $ (218 ) $ (21 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(f) basic $ 9.47 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.37 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Net income (loss)(f) basic 9.60 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.48 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Dividends paid(g) .20 .20 .20 .55 1.00 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 10,956 $ 7,837 $ 7,977 $ 8,337 $ 8,711 Capitalization: Notes payable $ $ $ $ $ 70 Long term debt including amount due within one year(h) 1,371 1,933 1,434 1,466 2,375 Preferred stock of subsidiary(i) 66 Trust Preferred Securities(i) 183 Stockholders equity 3,970 1,093 2,027 2,506 1,919 Total capitalization $ 5,341 $ 3,026 $ 3,461 $ 3,972 $ 4,613 (a) Includes minor revisions from the unaudited results reported on Form 8 K filed on January 25, 2005. Unaudited results for the year ended December 31, 2004, were income from operations of $1,584 million and net income of $1,085 million, or $8.44 per diluted share. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon). On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2000, and the income statement for each of the two years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, represent a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. Stockholders equity as of December 31, 2000, represents the combined net assets of the businesses comprising U. S. Steel (Marathons net investment in U. S. Steel). (c) Consists of revenues, dividend and investee income (loss), net gains on disposal of assets and other income (loss). (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in revenues and other income from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic, which was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. These were partially offset by reduced domestic tubular and plate shipment volumes. The increase in revenues and other income from 2000 to 2001 was mainly due to the inclusion of USSK revenues for the full year, the inclusion of Transtar revenues following the reorganization and higher income from investees relating to the gain on the Transtar reorganization; partially offset by lower domestic sheet, tubular and plate shipment volumes, lower average realized prices for domestic sheet products, and the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. The decrease from 2000 to 2001 mainly resulted from lower prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; higher employee benefit costs; lower results from coal, iron ore pellet and tin operations; and increased asset impairments; partially offset by a full year of income from USSK and the gain on the Transtar reorganization. (f) See Note 11 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (g) For years 2000 and 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (h) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease in long term debt from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to transactions related to the separation from Marathon. (i) At the separation from Marathon, these securities were either redeemed for cash by Marathon, or retained by Marathon and redeemed or repaid in January 2002. 31 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel is the second largest integrated steel producer in North America and has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume; selling prices; production costs; and value added product mix, since these products typically provide a higher profit margin than more commodity type steel products. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on its ability to implement the strategy described below. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, and U. S. Steel in particular, include the sustainability of higher steel prices; the steep increase in the cost of purchased raw materials; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has led to much of the recent volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States increased significantly during 2004 and could continue to increase depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, and consumption in the United States versus other regions. Strategy U. S. Steels business strategy is to continue to grow its investment in high end finishing assets, expand its global business platform, reduce its costs and become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets where management believes that U. S. Steels leadership position, production and processing capabilities and technical service provide a competitive advantage. These products include advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets for the construction industry, improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods. U. S. Steel continues to enhance its value added businesses through the upgrading and modernization of its key production facilities. U. S. Steel continues to be interested in participating in further consolidation of the North American steel industry if it would be beneficial to customers, shareholders, creditors and employees. U. S. Steel continues to explore additional opportunities for steel and raw materials investments in Europe. U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading European steel producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing 32 Table of Contents European markets, to grow its customer base in Europe by providing reliable delivery of high quality steel and to invest in value added facilities, including a planned automotive hot dip galvanizing line, to improve USSEs product mix. Expansion opportunities in Europe and North America would be attractive to U. S. Steel. South America, China and India are also possible areas of interest. In 2004, U. S. Steel concentrated on successfully integrating the businesses acquired in 2003 (discussed below), improving its balance sheet, increasing liquidity and continuing to strengthen its core steel businesses in order to be better positioned for further expansion and continued improvements to its existing facilities. An equity offering of 8 million common shares was completed in March 2004 for net proceeds of $294 million, which were primarily used to redeem certain senior notes. In April 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of its 10 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of its 9 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. In addition, USSK retired $281 million of long term debt in 2004. In total these debt repayments reduced annualized interest expense by approximately $50 million. Also during 2004, U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan and $30 million to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In October 2004, U. S. Steels $600 million revolving credit facility was amended and restated to: 1) extend the maturity to October 2009, 2) increase the borrowing base, 3) reduce the pricing for both borrowings and undrawn commitments, and 4) limit the application of many of the restrictive covenants. In February 2004, U. S. Steel continued to divest its non core assets when it sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. In 2003, U. S. Steel engaged in several significant transactions aimed at strengthening its core steel businesses. On May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy substantially all of the integrated steelmaking assets of National Steel Corporation (National). See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. The facilities that were acquired included two integrated steel plants, Granite City Works in Granite City, Illinois, and Great Lakes Works in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan; the Midwest Plant in Portage, Indiana; ProCoil Company LLC (ProCoil) in Canton, Michigan; a 50 percent equity interest in Double G Coatings Company, L.P. (Double G) near Jackson, Mississippi; the iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota (Keetac); and the Delray Connecting Railroad Company (Delray) in Michigan. This acquisition increased annual domestic raw steel production capability by 6.6 million net tons (tons) to 19.4 million tons. U. S. Steel and the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) reached a five year labor agreement that was effective upon the completion of the National acquisition and which covers both U. S. Steel and former National employees. This agreement allowed for a workforce restructuring aimed at achieving a 20 percent productivity improvement, expanded profit based variable compensation, provided cost sharing mechanisms for employee and retiree health care expenses, and provided a joint mechanism to consider further acquisitions of steel and steel related assets in North America. On September 12, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy Sartid a.d. (In Bankruptcy), an integrated steel company located in the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Sartid). U. S. Steel is operating these facilities as USSB. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. This acquisition increased annual European raw steel production capability by 2.4 million tons to 7.4 million tons. On June 30, 2003, U. S. Steel completed the sale of its coal mines and related assets (Mining Sale). As a result, U. S. Steel no longer mines any coal. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale. In a non monetary transaction in November 2003, U. S. Steels plate mill at Gary Works was exchanged for a pickling line located in East Chicago, Indiana. This was U. S. Steels only plate mill; however, U. S. Steel still produces plate in coil on its hot strip mills at Gary Works and at its European operations. 33 Table of Contents In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. Straightline Source (Straightline) was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2005. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total $230 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets for 2005 would have decreased or increased, respectively, the expected net periodic pension cost by $34 million. U. S. Steel determines the discount rate applied to pension and OPEB obligations at each year end or required interim period based on a number of external barometers used to measure the status of high quality bond rates consistent with the expected payout period of the obligations. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 6.0 percent to 5.75 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2005 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. Total OPEB costs in 2005 are expected to be approximately $109 million. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, a 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased pension and OPEB liabilities by $340 million and $110 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased pension and OPEB liabilities by $370 million and $120 million, respectively. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on 34 Table of Contents the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most salaried benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2005. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the escalation trend would have increased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $8 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the escalation trend would have decreased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $7 million in 2005. Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. The amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2004, was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of these net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004 and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2004, total accruals for environmental remediation were $123 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. 35 Table of Contents Segments During 2004, U. S. Steel had four reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE), Tubular Products (Tubular) and Real Estate. As of January 1, 2004, the residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. The application of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, resulted in U. S. Steel consolidating the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. (1314B Partnership) effective January 1, 2004. The results of the 1314B Partnership, which are included in the Flat rolled segment, were previously accounted for under the equity method. For further information, see Notes 4 and 18 to the Financial Statements. The National acquisition changed the composition of the Flat rolled segment and Other Businesses as described below, but did not result in a change in U. S. Steels reportable segments. Effective with the Mining Sale, Other Businesses are no longer involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. Effective with the acquisition of Sartid, the USSK segment was renamed USSE and includes the operating results of both USSK and USSB. Effective with the third quarter of 2003, the composition of the Flat rolled segment was changed to include the results of the coke operations at Clairton Works and Gary Works, which were previously reported in Other Businesses. This change reflected U. S. Steels management consolidations. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2003, benefit expenses for current retirees are separately identified and are no longer allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. These expenses include pensions, health care, life insurance and any profit based expenses for the benefit of retirees. Benefit expenses for active employees continue to be allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. Furthermore, U. S. Steel changed its methodology for allocating certain corporate costs. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for details. These changes were made so that operating results of U. S. Steels reportable segments will better reflect their current contribution and so that U. S. Steels segment results will be more comparable to those of its primary competitors who do not have significant fixed retiree obligations. Comparative results have been conformed to the current year presentation. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the service centers, conversion, transportation (including automotive), containers, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G, which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with Sartid. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service centers, appliance, containers, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed and developed for sale or lease. In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. In February 2004, U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. Prior to the disposition of these assets, results they generated were reported in the Real Estate segment. The Straightline segment included the operating results of U. S. Steels technology enabled distribution business that was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. 36 Table of Contents All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services, and engineering and consulting services. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of Keetac and Delray, which were acquired from National. Prior to the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer value for rounds supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and the transfer value of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs. Income The principal drivers of U. S. Steels financial results are price, volume, cost and product mix. To the extent that these factors are affected by industry conditions and the overall economic climate, revenues and income will reflect such conditions. Revenues and other income (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003(a) 2002 Revenues by product: Flat rolled steel products $ 11,549 $ 7,372 $ 5,115 Tubular 1,042 626 555 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore)(b) 705 419 513 Other(c) 673 911 766 Income (loss) from investees 57 (11 ) 33 Net gains on disposal of assets 57 85 29 Other income 25 56 43 Total revenues and other income $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Revenue from the sale of coal ceased with the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003. Includes revenue from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. Included revenue from steel mill products distribution prior to January 1, 2004, when the residual results of Straightline were included in Flat rolled; and revenue from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Total revenues and other income in 2004 increased $4,650 million compared to 2003. The increases primarily reflected higher average realized prices for Flat rolled, Tubular and European operations; higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet, tin and tubular products; higher shipment volumes for USSE; and higher revenues on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill and the absence of revenues from coal sales in 2004 due to the Mining Sale. Revenues for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues and other income in 2004 included a $43 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $36 million and other income of $7 million. Revenues and other income in 2003 included a net gain on disposal of assets of $55 million resulting from the timber contribution to the pension plan and a $47 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $13 million and other income of $34 million. Total revenues and other income in 2003 increased $2,404 million compared to 2002. The increase primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the Mining Sale, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. 37 Table of Contents Income from investees in 2002 included $39 million of insurance recoveries related to a 2001 fire at USS POSCO, other income included $38 million from a Federal excise tax refund, and gains on disposal of assets included $20 million from the sale of U. S. Steels shares of VSZ a.s. (VSZ). Profit based union payments Results for 2004 included costs of $241 million related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. Segment results for 2004 included $131 million of these costs and the balance was included in retiree benefit expenses. All of these costs are included in cost of revenues. Payment amounts per the agreement are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) to be contributed to a trust to assist National retirees with healthcare costs based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item are calculated in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $254 million in 2004, compared to $556 million in 2003 and a credit of $3 million in 2002. The costs in 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The credit in 2002 included $100 million of settlement losses. Excluding these one time charges, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. Excluding settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase of $212 million in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to a lower return on assets, a decline in the expected return on assets assumption and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $106 million in 2004, compared to $241 million in 2003 and $150 million in 2002. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. The increase in 2003 compared to 2002, excluding the curtailment charges, was primarily due to the addition of liabilities for National employees, changes in rate of retirement assumptions and a lower discount rate. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $18 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003 and 2002. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase in 2004 was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights and lower OPEB costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $673 million in 2003, compared to $418 million in 2002. The increase in 2003 was primarily due to higher pension and OPEB costs, increased compensation expense related 38 Table of Contents to stock appreciation rights, and higher expenses at USSE due mainly to unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange rate differences and increased business development expenses. These were partially offset by the favorable effect in 2003 of the absence of the impairment of retiree medical cost reimbursements receivable from Republic, which occurred in 2002. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for further details. Income (loss) from operations: (a) (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Flat rolled $ 1,185 $ (54 ) $ (84 ) USSE 394 203 110 Tubular 197 (25 ) (6 ) Real Estate 30 50 50 Straightline (70 ) (45 ) Total income (loss) from reportable segments 1,806 104 25 Other Businesses 28 (35 ) 33 Segment Income (Loss) from operations 1,834 69 58 Retiree benefit (expenses) credits (257 ) (107 ) 79 Other items not allocated to segments: Workforce reduction charges (including pension settlements) (17 ) (621 ) (100 ) Stock appreciation rights (23 ) (75 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Asset impairments (57 ) (14 ) Litigation items (25 ) 9 Costs related to Fairless shutdown (1 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire 39 Federal excise tax refund 38 Gain on VSZ share sale 20 Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,580 $ (730 ) $ 128 (a) See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices, which increased by $152 per ton; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. Flat rolled recorded a segment loss of $54 million in 2003, compared to a loss of $84 million in 2002. The decreased loss was primarily due to higher average realized prices and favorable effects resulting from ongoing cost improvement programs, the National acquisition and workforce reductions. These were partially offset by increased prices for raw materials, natural gas and utilities; higher employee benefit costs; increased costs for repair outages; and costs associated with the August 2003 power outage, which interrupted operations in Michigan and Ohio. 39 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income for 2004 was $394 million, compared to income of $203 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, which increased by $171 per ton, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. USSE segment income for the full year 2003 reflected an increase of $93 million from 2002. The improvement was primarily due to higher average realized prices as a result of favorable exchange rate effects and price increases, as well as higher shipment volumes. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, USSE shipments included those realized under toll conversion agreements with Sartid and, effective September 12, 2003, included all shipments from USSB (formerly Sartid). These improvements were partially offset by the unfavorable effect on costs of changes in foreign exchange rates; costs associated with the conversion and facility management agreements with Sartid, which were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition; and post acquisition operating losses at USSB including effects from a 38 day strike. Segment results for Tubular Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices, which increased by $233 per ton. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of tube rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which are transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. The segment loss for Tubular in 2003 reflected a decline of $19 million from 2002 primarily due to lower average realized prices for seamless products and higher natural gas prices, partially offset by increased shipment volumes for seamless products and income from the sale of Delta Tubular Processing. Segment results for Real Estate Real Estate segment income for 2004 was $30 million, down $20 million from 2003. The decrease primarily reflected lower mineral interest royalties as a result of the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Real Estate segment income for 2003 and 2002 was $50 million. Increased coal seam gas royalties were offset by lower real estate sales. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses recorded income of $28 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $35 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services. The loss for Other Businesses for 2003 reflected a decline of $68 million from income of $33 million in 2002. The decrease mainly reflected lower results from iron ore pellet operations due primarily to reduced shipment volumes, and lower results for coal operations and transportation services. Items not allocated to segments: Stock appreciation rights resulted in $23 million and $75 million of compensation expense accrued in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued over the last ten years and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. No stock appreciation rights were issued in 2004. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees, while the $100 million in 2002 reflected pension settlement losses related to retirements of personnel covered under the 40 Table of Contents non union qualified pension plan and the non qualified defined benefit pension plan. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels ongoing operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Asset impairments in 2002 were for charges related to reserves established against receivables exposure from financially distressed steel companies, primarily Republic. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of Real Estates remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain of Real Estates coal seam gas interests and from the Mining Sale. Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire represent U. S. Steels share of insurance recoveries in excess of facility repair costs for the cold reduction mill fire at USS POSCO, which occurred in May 2001. The final payment was received in December 2002. Federal excise tax refund represents the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales during the period 1993 through 1999. During 2002, U. S. Steel received cash and recognized pre tax income of $38 million, which is included in other income on the statement of operations. Of the $38 million received, $11 million represented interest. Net interest and other financial costs Net interest and other financial costs were $119 million in 2004, compared to $130 million in 2003 and $115 million in 2002. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. The decrease in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected lower interest on tax related liabilities, partially due to the more favorable 2004 adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes, more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and increased interest income. These favorable items were partially offset by a $33 million charge resulting from the early redemption of certain senior debt in April 2004. The $15 million increase from 2002 to 2003 was primarily due to interest on the new 9 3/4% senior notes, partially offset by more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and lower interest on tax related liabilities resulting from the favorable $17 million adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of both, and resulted in net gains of $32 million, $20 million and $16 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2004 was $351 million, compared to benefits in 2003 and 2002 of $454 million and $48 million, respectively. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefits in 2003 and 2002 included favorable effects relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million and $8 million, respectively. The change to a tax provision in 2004 as compared to tax benefits in the previous two years was primarily the result of pre tax income from domestic 41 Table of Contents operations recorded in 2004 compared to domestic pre tax losses in 2003 and 2002. The increase in the tax benefit in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to increased pre tax losses for domestic operations, including increased benefit costs. The Slovak Income Tax Act provides an income tax credit, which is available to USSK if certain conditions are met. In order to claim the tax credit in any year, 60 percent of USSKs sales must be export sales and USSK must reinvest the tax credits claimed in qualifying capital expenditures during the five years following the year in which the tax credit is claimed. The provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 100 percent of USSKs tax liability for years 2000 through 2004 and 50 percent of the current statutory rate of 19 percent for the years 2005 through 2009. Management believes that USSK fulfilled all of the necessary conditions for claiming the tax credit for the years for which it was claimed and anticipates meeting such requirements in 2005. As a result of claiming these tax credits and managements intent to reinvest earnings in foreign operations, virtually no income tax provision, except for the two $16 million tax payments discussed below, is recorded for USSK income. In connection with Slovakia joining the European Union (EU), the total tax credit granted to USSK for the period 2000 through 2009 was limited to $430 million, and USSK agreed to make tax payments of $16 million in 2004 and 2005, the first of which was paid in June 2004. Also, additional conditions for claiming the tax credit were established. These new conditions limit USSKs annual production of flat rolled product and its sales of all products into the 15 countries that were members of the EU prior to Slovakia and 9 other nations joining the EU in May 2004. Management believes the future impact of these changes will be minimal because Slovak tax laws have been modified and tax rates have been reduced since the acquisition of USSK; and the production and sales limits, which provide for annual increases through 2009, are not materially burdensome. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004, and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax liabilities of $314 million and $61 million, respectively. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2004, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the lack of historical information and the losses experienced in the months immediately following the acquisition of USSB. If USSB continues to generate income, the valuation allowance of $17 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2004 was $1,091 million, compared with a net loss of $463 million in 2003 and net income of $61 million in 2002. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Operations Flat rolled shipments were 15.6 million tons in 2004, 13.5 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from the facilities acquired from National, and 9.9 million tons in 2002. Tubular shipments were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 0.9 million tons in 2003 and 0.8 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 4 percent of U. S. Steels domestic shipments in 2004 and 2003, and 5 percent in 2002. USSE shipments were 5.0 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from USSB, and 4.0 million tons in 2002. 42 Table of Contents The acquisition of the assets of National on May 20, 2003, increased U. S. Steels stated annual raw steel production capability for domestic operations from 12.8 millions tons to 19.4 million tons. Raw steel production was 17.3 million tons in 2004, compared with 14.9 million tons in 2003, including production from the National assets following the acquisition, and 11.5 million tons in 2002. Raw steel production averaged 89 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 88 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the National capability on a prorata basis, and 90 percent of capability in 2002. All steel produced in U. S. Steels domestic facilities is continuous cast. Domestic capability utilization in 2004 and 2003 was reduced by scheduled blast furnace repair outages, which occurred in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2004 and in the second quarter of 2003. In 2002, domestic raw steel production was affected by poor market conditions during the first quarter, the acceleration into the fourth quarter of some blast furnace repair work that was originally scheduled to occur in 2003 and the high level of imports. The acquisition of Sartid on September 12, 2003, increased USSEs stated annual raw steel production capability from 5.0 million tons to 7.4 million tons. USSE raw steel production was 5.7 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including production from the Sartid assets following the acquisition, and 4.4 million tons in 2002. USSEs raw steel production averaged 77 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 84 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the Sartid capability on a prorata basis, and 88 percent in 2002. USSEs capability utilization in 2004 was reduced by the inclusion of USSB, as well as by operational difficulties with a blast furnace in Slovakia during the first quarter. USSEs capability utilization in 2003 was reduced by a blast furnace outage at USSK and the partial period inclusion of USSB as only about a third of its annual production capability was operational at the time of its acquisition in September 2003. USSBs capability utilization averaged 48 percent in 2004 and 20 percent in 2003 following the acquisition. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2004 increased $1,137 million from year end 2003 primarily due to increased cash balances and higher trade receivables. The increase in cash was mainly due to improved operations, $294 million of net proceeds from an equity offering and proceeds from the disposal of assets, partially offset by capital spending, the voluntary funding of benefit plans, the repayment of USSK debt and the redemption of certain senior notes. The increase in trade receivables primarily resulted from higher revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004, compared to last years fourth quarter, resulting mainly from higher steel prices. FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability is no longer required for this plan. Consequently, required entries were recorded that increased prepaid pensions by $2.48 billion, decreased the intangible pension asset by $440 million and resulted in a net credit to equity of $1.45 billion, which decreased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2004 decreased $325 million from year end 2003 and long term deferred income tax liabilities increased $592 million, primarily due to the elimination of federal and state deferred tax assets that were established in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2004 increased $404 million from year end 2003 mainly due to increases in accounts payable and payroll and benefits payable. The increase in accounts payable resulted mainly from higher raw materials costs and increased purchases of capital assets in late 2004 compared to the same period last year. The increase in payroll and benefits payable was primarily due to liabilities resulting from the profit based union payments that were previously discussed. Long term debt at December 31, 2004, was $1,363 million, $527 million lower than year end 2003. The decrease in debt was primarily due to the retirement of $281 million of USSK long term debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. 43 Table of Contents Employee benefits at December 31, 2004, decreased $257 million from year end 2003. Employee benefits at year end 2003 included the net pension liability related to an additional minimum liability adjustment for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan. In addition, OPEB liabilities decreased primarily because the sum of retiree medical benefit payments made in cash and a $30 million voluntary cash contribution to a trust exceeded the amount of retiree medical expense booked in 2004. Retiree medical expense was $60 million lower in 2004 as compared to 2003 due to recognition of the estimated effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and a cost cap negotiated with the USWA in 2003. For further information, see Estimated Future Benefit Payments in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Additional paid in capital increased by $354 million from the prior year end primarily reflecting U. S. Steels equity offering that was completed in March 2004. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities was $1,400 million in 2004, compared with $577 million in 2003. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items was partially offset by increased working capital requirements. Cash from operating activities in 2004 was reduced by $295 million of voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan, $186 million of OPEB payments, $50 million of payments to a multiemployer pension plan, $44 million of payments to pension plans not funded by trusts and $30 million of contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In 2003, OPEB payments were primarily funded by trusts. The $75 million in voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan in 2003 consisted of timber cutting rights valued at $59 million and $16 million of cash. Further contributions totaling $15 million were made to other smaller pension plans in 2003. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2006. Net cash provided from operating activities of $577 million in 2003 reflected an improvement of $298 million compared to 2002. The improvement resulted mainly from lower working capital requirements. Capital expenditures in 2004 were $579 million, compared with $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Major domestic projects in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills. Major projects at USSE in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $258 million, including $97 million for USSE. Major projects in 2002 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills and various projects at USSK, including continued work on the new tinning and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, completion of the scrap management and hot strip mill reheat furnace upgrade projects, commencement of work on a new dynamo line and installation of a vacuum degassing facility. U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2004, totaled $98 million compared with $23 million at December 31, 2003. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2004, was $257 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $135 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2004, leaving a balance of $22 million under this commitment. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements for further information. 44 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2005 are expected to be approximately $755 million, reflecting approximately $475 million for domestic operations and $280 million for European facilities. Domestic projects include the rebuild of the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, acquisition of mobile and mining equipment and coke oven thru wall repairs at Clairton Works and Gary Works. Projects in Slovakia include initial spending for a new automotive galvanizing line; and continuing work on air emissions reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include completion of the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace and steel production improvements. The preceding statement concerning expected 2005 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisitions in 2003 consisted of $839 million for the National assets, $29 million for USSB and a $37 million cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. The $38 million in 2002 was a cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. Disposal of assets in 2004 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of substantially all of the Real Estate segments remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Disposal of assets in 2003 consisted mainly of proceeds from the Mining Sale, cash collections on notes received in prior years asset disposals, the sale of the former National headquarters building and the sale of U. S. Steels interest in Delta Tubular Processing. Disposal of assets in 2002 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of U. S. Steels investment in stock of VSZ. Restricted cash Net deposits of $32 million in 2003 and $67 million in 2002 were mainly used to collateralize letters of credit to meet financial assurance requirements. Issuance of long term debt in 2003 resulted from the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May, net of deferred financing costs associated with the notes and the inventory facility. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2004 mainly reflected the retirement of long term USSK debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2003 and 2002 was mainly the USSK debt. Preferred stock issued in 2003 reflected net proceeds from the offering of 5 million shares of Series B Preferred. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004. The remaining amount mainly reflected proceeds from stock sales through the exercise of options. The 2003 amount primarily reflected sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. The 2002 amount primarily reflected $192 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in May 2002, as well as sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Dividends paid in 2004 were $39 million, compared with $35 million in 2003 and $19 million in 2002. Payments in all three periods reflected the quarterly dividend rate of five cents per common share. Dividends paid in 2004 also reflected a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share for the Series B Preferred. Dividends paid in 2003 also included an initial dividend of $1.206 per share for the Series B Preferred, which was paid on June 15, 2003, and a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share thereafter. The quarterly dividend rate per common share was increased to eight cents effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Debt and Convertible Preferred Shares Ratings On November 5, 2004, Moodys Investors Service upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating two steps, from B1 to Ba2. On November 12, 2004, Standard & Poors Ratings Services upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating from BB to BB and raised the preferred stock rating from B to B. 45 Table of Contents Liquidity In November 2001, U. S. Steel entered into a five year Receivables Purchase Agreement with financial institutions. U. S. Steel established a wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), which is a consolidated special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity that acquires, on a daily basis, eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries. USSR can sell an undivided interest in these receivables to certain commercial paper conduits. USSR pays the conduits a discount based on the conduits borrowing costs plus incremental fees, certain of which are determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, which increased fundings under the facility to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. Eligible receivables exclude certain obligors, amounts in excess of defined percentages for certain obligors, and amounts past due or due beyond a defined period. In addition, eligible receivables are calculated by deducting certain reserves, which are based on various determinants including concentration, dilution and loss percentages, as well as the credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had more than $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. While the term of the Receivables Purchase Agreement is five years, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed below and other debt obligations, any failure of USSR to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables, and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 23, 2005. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a four year revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by all domestic inventory and related assets (Inventory Facility), including receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The Inventory Facility contained a number of covenants that may have limited U. S. Steels ability to incur debt, make capital expenditures, sell assets, incur liens and make dividend and other restricted payments. The Inventory Facility also included a fixed charge coverage ratio test, which had to be met if availability was less than $100 million. In October 2004, the Inventory Facility was amended and restated to extend its maturity until October 2009, increase advance rates on semi finished and raw materials, reduce certain reserves, and modify pricing terms. In addition, many of the restrictive covenants apply now only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had in excess of $600 million of eligible inventory under the Inventory Facility, and utilized $6 million for letters of credit, reducing availability to $594 million. At December 31, 2004, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. In the third quarter of 2004, USSB entered into a new EUR 9.3 million (which approximated $12.7 million at December 31, 2004) committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility has a term of one year, and can be extended by mutual agreement of the parties for up to two additional one year periods. At December 31, 2004, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes), and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. 46 Table of Contents The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.2 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $118 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2004, an increase of $5 million during 2004, and expects to commit approximately $10 million to $20 million more during 2005. U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2004, in the amount of $42 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as obligations relating to Industrial Development and Environmental Improvement Bonds and Notes in the amount of $472 million and certain lease obligations totaling $190 million that were assumed by U. S. Steel from Marathon, may be declared immediately due and payable. 47 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2004: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents (a) $ 1,021 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSE credit facilities 69 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,184 (a) Excludes $16 million of cash, which resulted from the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership, because it is not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity at December 31, 2004 increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2004, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,373 $ 8 $ 33 $ 379 $ 953 Operating leases(b) 460 118 169 57 116 Capital commitments(c) 355 59 39 257 USSB Commitments 22 3 19 Environmental commitments(c) 123 21 102 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e ) 26 55 29 (e ) Other postretirement benefits (f ) 243 545 475 (f ) Total contractual obligations (g ) $ 475 $ 844 $ 959 (g ) (a) See Note 17 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2005 through 2009 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to 48 Table of Contents pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets which were managed by the Real Estate segment, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit plan in 2005. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $12 million to plans not funded by trusts in 2005. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2004, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 93 $ 65 $ 20 $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 21 4 17 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 28 28 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 25 8 1 14 2 Contingent liabilities: Marathon obligations(a)(d) 42 15 19 8 Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 1,627 1,001 383 152 91 Total commercial commitments $ 1,986 $ 1,093 $ 423 $ 174 $ 296 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of substrate and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In 2003, U. S. Steel entered into two off balance sheet arrangements for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. These operating lease arrangements are with special purpose trusts (SPTs). The SPTs financed the construction of the facilities and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficial owners of the SPTs. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of these entities. There are no guarantees of the obligations of these SPTs by U. S. Steel, and U. S. Steel would incur no significant penalties that would result in the reasonable assurance of continuation of the leases. U. S. Steels transactions with the SPTs are limited to the operating lease agreements, and the associated 49 Table of Contents lease expense is included in cost of revenues on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate these SPTs because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has unconditional supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 4 and Note 18 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 15 year agreement for the supply of electric power at Gary Works in Indiana, expiring in 2011. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of a 161 megawatt steam extraction turbine for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. Gary Works employees operate and maintain the facility and Gary Works supplies the steam for the turbine. This power is the first dispatched source of power to Gary Works. There are no take or pay obligations associated with this requirements contract and U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement results in an increase of approximately $60 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required 50 Table of Contents to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. 51 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Domestic: Capital $ 24 $ 8 $ 4 Compliance Operating & maintenance 241 206 171 Remediation(b) 18 38 36 Total Domestic $ 283 $ 252 $ 211 USSE: Capital $ 97 $ 22 $ 10 Compliance Operating & maintenance 8 10 8 Remediation(b) 3 3 1 Total USSE $ 108 $ 35 $ 19 Total U. S. Steel $ 391 $ 287 $ 230 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 21 percent of total capital expenditures in 2004, 10 percent in 2003 and 5 percent in 2002. Compliance expenditures represented 2 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2004, and 3 percent in 2003 and 2002. Remediation spending during 2002 to 2004 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2004, U. S. Steel accrued $34 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2004, was $123 million. Environmental spending in 2004 totaled $23 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2005. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $128 million in 2005, $69 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2005 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2006, including $90 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured electric cable; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. 53 Table of Contents Outlook for 2005 First quarter 2005 average realized prices for Flat rolled are expected to remain in line with or increase slightly from fourth quarter levels; however, results will be negatively affected by higher costs for raw materials, as well as slightly lower shipments. For full year 2005, Flat rolled shipments are expected to be about 15.4 million tons, reflecting the planned outage at the Gary No. 13 blast furnace. For USSE, first quarter average realized prices are expected to be moderately higher than in the fourth quarter of 2004, with shipments remaining about the same and costs for raw materials increasing significantly. USSE shipments for full year 2005 are projected to increase by about 15 percent to approximately 5.8 million net tons due mainly to higher operating levels at the Serbian facilities following the planned mid year startup of a second blast furnace. Shipments for Tubular in the first quarter of 2005 are expected to be at about the same level as in 2004s fourth quarter, while average realized prices are expected to continue to increase. Tubular announced price increases for certain products ranging from $50 to $250 per ton effective in January 2005. Full year shipments are expected to increase to 1.2 million tons. Costs will increase as a result of annual transfer value adjustments for semi finished steel, which comprehend raw material cost escalation, and higher costs for purchased rounds. First quarter 2005 results for Other Businesses will decline compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 due to normal seasonal effects at iron ore operations in Minnesota. In accordance with the previously announced settlement agreement with the City of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana regarding past years Gary Works personal property taxes, a Lake County appeals board is expected to consider a motion to resolve the appeals in accordance with the proposed settlement in early 2005. If the settlement is approved and becomes final as submitted, U. S. Steel would pay $44 million and would recognize a favorable income effect reflecting the reversal of liabilities accrued in excess of the settlement amount. Total costs in 2005 for domestic defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately the same as in 2004. For further information, see Critical Accounting Estimates Pensions and OPEB. This outlook contains forward looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices, tax settlements and employee benefit costs. Some factors, among others, that could affect market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both domestic operations and USSE include global product demand, prices and mix; global and company steel production levels; plant operating performance; the timing and completion of facility projects; natural gas prices and usage; raw materials availability and prices; changes in environmental, tax and other laws; employee strikes; power outages; legal proceedings regarding the proposed Gary Works tax settlement and U.S. and global economic performance and political developments. Domestic steel shipments and prices could be affected by import levels and actions taken by the U.S. Government and its agencies. Political factors in Europe that may affect USSEs results include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures. Future pension costs will be influenced by the market performance of plan assets, laws and regulations regarding discount rates and other calculations, and other economic factors. Future costs for active and retiree medical benefits will be influenced by medical inflation rates, future laws and regulations and retiree participation levels. Accounting Standards In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R) which addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that do not have sufficient equity investment to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. The Interpretation provides guidance related to identifying variable interest entities and determining whether such entities should be consolidated. It also provides guidance related to the initial and subsequent measurement of assets, liabilities and 54 Table of Contents noncontrolling interests in newly consolidated variable interest entities and requires disclosures for both the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and other beneficiaries of the entity. In accordance with FIN 46R, U. S. Steel consolidated the 1314B Partnership as of January 1, 2004. See further discussion in Note 18 to the Financial statements. In May 2004, FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106 2 (FSP FAS 106 2), Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Drug Act) was issued. FSP FAS 106 2 finalizes the accounting for the Drug Act and specifies that the effect of the Federal subsidy on a benefit plans accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) shall be accounted for as an actuarial experience gain. U. S. Steel accounted for the estimated effects of the Drug Act on its APBO as of December 31, 2003. Estimated savings of $450 million were included as an actuarial gain primarily due to changes in participation assumptions caused by the impact of the Drug Act in combination with the cost cap negotiated with the USWA in May 2003 and due to savings from reduced costs for mineworker participants because it is anticipated that the mineworkers union drug program will qualify for the Federal subsidy. Periodic postretirement benefit costs for 2004 were reduced by $60 million due to the estimated impact of these changes. There may also be significant clarifications of the Drug Act in future years that could significantly alter some or all of U. S. Steels assumptions. Furthermore, the participant withdrawal rates could occur at a different pace than has been assumed and the estimated savings could be greater or less than currently identified. No guidance has been issued regarding the effects of the Drug Act on U. S. Steels liabilities under the Coal Act of 1992, which is currently being accounted for under FAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 151 Inventory Costs (FAS 151) which amends ARB 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expenses, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges. In addition, FAS 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of FAS 151 are effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to inventory costs incurred on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect this Statement to have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, (FAS 123R) which is a revision of FAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, (FAS 123) and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. This Statement applies to U. S. Steel for all awards granted on or after July 1, 2005, and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after July 1, 2005, for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for pro forma disclosures. U. S. Steel expects the effect of adopting this Statement on 2005 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $15 million. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 152, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 66 and 67. This Statement amends FASB Statements No. 66 and 67 in association with the issuance of SOP 04 2, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, which applies to all real estate time sharing transactions. This Statement is effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to any real estate time sharing transactions occurring on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not have any real estate time sharing arrangements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. This Statement eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29 and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. This Statement specifies that a nonmonetary 55 Table of Contents exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of this Statement are effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this Statement prospectively to nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring on or after January 1, 2006. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, (FSP FAS 109 1) which states that the FASB staff believes that the qualified production activities deduction provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109 (FAS 109.) This FSP was effective upon issuance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which states that the FASB staff believes that the lack of clarification of certain provisions within the Act and the timing of the enactment necessitate a practical exemption to the FAS 109 requirement to reflect in the period of enactment the effect of a new tax law. Accordingly, an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying FAS 109. See Note 13 to the Financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas, heating oil and nonferrous metals and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. 56 Table of Contents Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pre tax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Decrease of(a) 2004 2003 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Zinc 2.9 7.2 1.2 3.1 Tin NA NA 0.0 0.1 Natural Gas 1.8 4.4 0.9 2.2 (a) The definition of a derivative instrument includes certain fixed price physical commodity contracts. Such instruments are included in the above table. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2004, may cause future pre tax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $4 million in 2004, compared to a gain of $1 million in 2003 and a loss of $6 million in 2002. These gains and losses were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For additional quantitative information relating to derivative commodity instruments, see Note 25 to the Financial Statements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2004 and 2003 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) As of December 31 2004 2003 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFair Value(c) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFairValue(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 8 $ $ 16 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f) $ 1,419 $ 50 $ 1,993 $ 90 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 23 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. (d) For additional information, see Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (e) Includes amounts due within one year. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 17 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels portfolio of long term debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $50 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases 57 Table of Contents in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $14.3 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $47.0 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2004 euro forward rates would result in a $6.1 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 58 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet CAA obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be adversely affected. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSKs environmental expenses in 2004 included usage fees, permit fees and or penalties totaling approximately $6 million. There are no legal proceedings pending against USSK involving environmental matters. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First 18 Table of Contents Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently less restrictive than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. The 1997 Kyoto Global Climate Change Agreement produced by the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, which would have required restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the United States, has not been ratified by the U.S. Senate, and it appears unlikely that it will be implemented domestically in the near future. It is unclear what international action will be taken concerning greenhouse gases or the economic impact of such programs; however, inter government discussions continue. Air The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a federally mandated operating permit program and enhanced civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. The principal impact of the CAA on U. S. Steel is on the cokemaking and primary steelmaking operations of U. S. Steel, as described in this section. The CAA requires the regulation of hazardous air pollutants and development and promulgation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) Standards. It was determined in 1995 that the Chrome Electroplating MACT did not apply to steel mill sources; however, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) stated that MACT standards applicable to these sources would be forthcoming. To date, there has been no action taken. Potentially affected U. S. Steel facilities are the electrolytic tinning lines at Gary Works and the tin free steel lines at East Chicago Tin and the Midwest Plant. The EPA finalized MACT standards for integrated iron and steel plants on May 20, 2003, that require compliance by May 22, 2006. The taconite iron ore processing MACT was finalized on October 30, 2003, and requires compliance by October 30, 2006. U. S. Steel anticipates that additional emissions control equipment will be needed to comply with the taconite iron ore processing MACT at Minntac and Keetac. Costs associated with compliance with these MACT standards are included in the capital expenditures disclosed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. The CAA specifically addressed the regulation and control of coke oven batteries. The National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants for coke oven batteries was finalized in October 1993, setting forth the MACT standard and, as an alternative, a Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) standard. Effective January 1998, U. S. Steel elected to comply with the LAER standards. U. S. Steel believes it will be able to meet the current LAER standards. The LAER standards will be further revised in 2010 and additional health risk based standards are expected to be adopted in 2020. The EPA finalized the Phase II Coke MACT for pushing, quenching and battery stacks on April 14, 2003, that requires compliance by April 14, 2006. U. S. Steel is in the process of developing an estimate of the cost to comply. 19 Table of Contents In September 1997, the EPA adopted revisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone and particulate matter, which are significantly more stringent than prior standards. The EPA is also developing regulations to address Regional Haze. The impact of these revised standards could be significant to U. S. Steel, but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated until the final regulations are promulgated and, more importantly, the states implement their State Implementation Plans covering their standards. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains the necessary discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts its operations to be in compliance with such permits. For additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 22,000 domestically and approximately 26,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented 20 Table of Contents by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in February 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Represented employees at USSB are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. All other filings are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the Securities and Exchange Commissions web site, the Internet address of which is www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on revenues and income (loss) of the reportable segments and Other Businesses and on revenues and other income and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 5 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 57 and F 58. 21 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Olympic Laser Processing(b) Van Buren, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Pipe Mills Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar and Delray Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 22 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Granite City, Illinois, which had been subject to a lease through 2012, was purchased in June 2004. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 215 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 23 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) Approximately 4 percent did not specify any damages sought at all, approximately 6 percent alleged damages of $1.0 million or less, another 0.6 percent alleged damages between $2.0 million and $10.0 million, and 0.4 percent alleged damages over $10 million. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 17,100 active claims outstanding. In 2002, U. S. Steel settled 1,135 claims for a total of approximately $700,000, and had a total of 2,662 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and 842 new claims filed. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that 24 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2004, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 20 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 8 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 10 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of sharing in any final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In 1988, U. S. Steel and two other PRPs (Bethlehem Steel Corporation and William Fiore) agreed to the issuance of an administrative order by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to undertake emergency removal work at the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. The cost of such removal, which has been completed, was approximately $4.2 million, of which U. S. Steel paid $3.4 million. EPA indicated that further remediation of this site would be required. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. After a Feasibility Study (FS) by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) and submission of a conceptual remedial action plan in 2001 by U. S. Steel, U. S. Steel submitted a revised conceptual remedial action plan on May 31, 2002. U. S. Steel and PADEP signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible 25 Table of Contents for remediation of this site. On March 18, 2003, PADEP notified U. S. Steel that the public comment period was concluded and the Consent Order and Agreement is final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $7.0 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from EPA requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/FS. The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project based on the groups selection from the range of alternatives presented in the FS is estimated to be $6.4 million. Of that total, U. S. Steels allocable share among the eight PRPs is approximately $1.0 million. In addition, U. S. Steels share of PRP group costs is expected to be less than $100,000 in 2005. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities The following is a discussion of other remediation activities at the major domestic U. S. Steel facilities: There are 39 additional sites related to U. S. Steel where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 4 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 17 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 5 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. Another 4 sites, including the Grand Calumet River remediation at Gary Works, the closure of hazardous waste sites at Gary Works, the claim for investigation, restoration and compensation of injuries to sediments in the east branch of the Grand Calumet River near Gary Works, and corrective action and groundwater investigation at Gary Works, have or are expected to have costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation in excess of $5 million. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. In 1999, U. S. Steel paid civil penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs. In addition, U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with NPDES requirements. The sediment remediation project is an approved final interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works. As of December 31, 2004, project costs have amounted to $51.5 million with another $100,000 presently projected to complete work under the approved sediment remediation plan. A Dredge Completion Report was submitted to EPA on March 29, 2004. EPA responded with written comments on the report. In response, U. S. Steel conducted additional sampling of river sediments in a portion of the dredge project area. Based on the results of the additional sediment sampling, U. S. Steel is considering additional dredging that would include additional substantial bank stabilization measures. Negotiations to have this additional work considered as a final measure are proceeding. The additional dredging and bank stabilization is anticipated to cost approximately $9.0 million. At the conclusion of the dredge project, the Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) will remain available and could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective 26 Table of Contents measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to the Administrative Order on Consent for corrective action. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $4.9 million. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River, costs of which are estimated to be $2.4 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property. The D2 disposal site and a nearby refuse area will be closed collectively. Total costs to close D2, D5, T2 and the refuse area are estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The public trustees completed a preassessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have determined to perform a Natural Resources Damages Assessment. U. S. Steel was identified as a PRP along with 15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. U. S. Steel and eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The trustees notified the public of their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. In 2000, the trustees concluded their assessment of sediment injuries, which included a technical review of environmental conditions. The PRP joint defense group has proposed terms for the settlement of this claim, which have been endorsed by representatives of the trustees and EPA to be included in a consent decree that U. S. Steel expects will resolve this claim. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs, and obtained an 8 acre parcel of land that has been transferred to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for addition to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Park owned by the National Park Service. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement has been executed by the parties and lodged with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana on August 20, 2004. Concurrent with this lodging of the Consent Decree, the United States of America filed its complaint titled United States of America v. Atlantic Richfield, et. al. asserting liability for its claim against the settling parties. In December 2004, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) filed a motion with the court that requested approval and entry of the consent decree. On October 23, 1998, a final Administrative Order on Consent was issued by EPA addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. The Current Conditions Report, U. S. Steels first deliverable, was submitted to EPA in January 1997 and was approved by EPA in 1998. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans and a self implementing interim measure have been submitted to EPA for approval. Two other self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $14.9 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations and the submitted work plans is estimated to be $6.4 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to present. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $424,000. 27 Table of Contents Fairfield Works In December 1995, U. S. Steel reached an agreement in principle with EPA and DOJ with respect to alleged RCRA violations at Fairfield Works. A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and DOJ and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved for the site on September 16, 2002. Field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel is currently preparing a Phase I RFI Report for submission to ADEM in early 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $414,000. In addition, U. S. Steel is developing a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. Lower Opossum Creek is approximately 4.5 miles of the Opossum Creek Area of Concern. U. S. Steel is investigating Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the investigation costs. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of this investigation and costs to implement sediment remediation to be $823,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $478,000. Lorain Pipe Mills In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe), was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. USS/Kobe and EPA commenced settlement negotiations in July 1999. In August 1999, the steelmaking and bar producing operations of USS/Kobe were combined with companies controlled by Blackstone Capital Partners II to form Republic. The tubular operations of USS/Kobe were transferred to a newly formed entity, Lorain Tubular Company, LLC (Lorain Tubular), which operated as a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe until December 31, 1999, when U. S. Steel purchased all of Kobes interest in Lorain Tubular. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Pipe Mills. U. S. Steel and EPA have agreed upon terms of settlement that include a cash penalty for U. S. Steel of $100,000 plus a supplemental environmental project to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Negotiations on the final terms and conditions of the consent decree are ongoing. Most of the matters raised by EPA relate to Republics facilities; however, air discharges from U. S. Steels No. 3 seamless pipe mill were also cited and U. S. Steel will be responsible for conducting a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. U. S. Steel will be responsible only for matters relating to its facilities. Issues related to Republic have been resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works U. S. Steel has agreed to the terms of a consent decree that will include the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the BOP; a civil penalty of $950,000; and a supplemental environmental project at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Great Lakes Works continues to identify and evaluate potential operating practices and facility improvements to reduce emissions. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $12.9 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through December 31, 2004. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $363,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. 28 Table of Contents Geneva Works In November 1989, the Utah Department of Environmental Quality issued a permit to U. S. Steel for the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments including facility wide corrective action at U. S. Steels former Geneva Works. The permit was administratively extended until May 14, 2004, when it was reissued to U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company (Geneva), the site owner. The permit allocates responsibility for corrective action between U. S. Steel and Geneva. U. S. Steel has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations on some areas of the facility for which U. S. Steel has responsibility under the permit. The remaining costs to prepare these work plans, implement field investigations and continue post closure care on the three hazardous waste impoundments are estimated to be approximately $5.6 million. On June 2, 2004, Geneva filed a motion in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Utah to approve the amendment and assumption of the 1987 Asset Sales Agreement, the acceptance of the permit and the retention of a remediation contractor. On July 7, 2004, the motion was heard and granted providing for Genevas continuing involvement and funding of the remediation required by the permit. Other In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The site was owned by Armour Agriculture Chemical Company (now named Viad) from 1912 to 1968. U. S. Steel owned the site from 1968 to 1986 and sold the site to LaRoche Industries in 1986. The agreed order allocated responsibility for assessment and cleanup costs as follows: Viad 48 percent, U. S. Steel 26 percent and LaRoche 26 percent; and LaRoche was appointed to be the lead party responsible for conducting the cleanup. In March 2001, U. S. Steel was notified that LaRoche had filed for protection under bankruptcy law. On August 23, 2001, the allocation of responsibility for this site assessment and cleanup and the cost allocation was approved by the bankruptcy court in the LaRoche bankruptcy. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $801,000, based on the allocation factor of 26 percent. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas. The site is a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. U. S. Steel agreed in a Consent Order before KDHE, signed April 7, 2003, with KDHE and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Under that agreement, U. S. Steel and SSB each bear a 50 percent share of the costs of those responsibilities. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.2 million. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2005, are as follows: John J. Connelly 58 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 56 Executive Vice PresidentOperations Gretchen R. Haggerty 49 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer Christopher J. Navetta 56 President, U. S. Steel Kosice, s.r.o. Dan D. Sandman 56 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 55 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 57 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 50 President and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 55. As of January 31, 2005, there were 31,747 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2004, no unregistered shares were issued. 30 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2004(a) 2003 2002 2001(b) 2000(b) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues and other income(c)(d) $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 $ 6,375 $ 6,132 Income (loss) from operations(e) 1,580 (730 ) 128 (405 ) 104 Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) 1,077 (406 ) 61 (218 ) (21 ) Net income (loss)(e) $ 1,091 $ (463 ) $ 61 $ (218 ) $ (21 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(f) basic $ 9.47 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.37 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Net income (loss)(f) basic 9.60 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.48 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Dividends paid(g) .20 .20 .20 .55 1.00 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 10,956 $ 7,837 $ 7,977 $ 8,337 $ 8,711 Capitalization: Notes payable $ $ $ $ $ 70 Long term debt including amount due within one year(h) 1,371 1,933 1,434 1,466 2,375 Preferred stock of subsidiary(i) 66 Trust Preferred Securities(i) 183 Stockholders equity 3,970 1,093 2,027 2,506 1,919 Total capitalization $ 5,341 $ 3,026 $ 3,461 $ 3,972 $ 4,613 (a) Includes minor revisions from the unaudited results reported on Form 8 K filed on January 25, 2005. Unaudited results for the year ended December 31, 2004, were income from operations of $1,584 million and net income of $1,085 million, or $8.44 per diluted share. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon). On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2000, and the income statement for each of the two years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, represent a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. Stockholders equity as of December 31, 2000, represents the combined net assets of the businesses comprising U. S. Steel (Marathons net investment in U. S. Steel). (c) Consists of revenues, dividend and investee income (loss), net gains on disposal of assets and other income (loss). (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in revenues and other income from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic, which was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. These were partially offset by reduced domestic tubular and plate shipment volumes. The increase in revenues and other income from 2000 to 2001 was mainly due to the inclusion of USSK revenues for the full year, the inclusion of Transtar revenues following the reorganization and higher income from investees relating to the gain on the Transtar reorganization; partially offset by lower domestic sheet, tubular and plate shipment volumes, lower average realized prices for domestic sheet products, and the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. The decrease from 2000 to 2001 mainly resulted from lower prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; higher employee benefit costs; lower results from coal, iron ore pellet and tin operations; and increased asset impairments; partially offset by a full year of income from USSK and the gain on the Transtar reorganization. (f) See Note 11 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (g) For years 2000 and 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (h) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease in long term debt from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to transactions related to the separation from Marathon. (i) At the separation from Marathon, these securities were either redeemed for cash by Marathon, or retained by Marathon and redeemed or repaid in January 2002. 31 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel is the second largest integrated steel producer in North America and has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume; selling prices; production costs; and value added product mix, since these products typically provide a higher profit margin than more commodity type steel products. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on its ability to implement the strategy described below. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, and U. S. Steel in particular, include the sustainability of higher steel prices; the steep increase in the cost of purchased raw materials; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has led to much of the recent volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States increased significantly during 2004 and could continue to increase depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, and consumption in the United States versus other regions. Strategy U. S. Steels business strategy is to continue to grow its investment in high end finishing assets, expand its global business platform, reduce its costs and become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets where management believes that U. S. Steels leadership position, production and processing capabilities and technical service provide a competitive advantage. These products include advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets for the construction industry, improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods. U. S. Steel continues to enhance its value added businesses through the upgrading and modernization of its key production facilities. U. S. Steel continues to be interested in participating in further consolidation of the North American steel industry if it would be beneficial to customers, shareholders, creditors and employees. U. S. Steel continues to explore additional opportunities for steel and raw materials investments in Europe. U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading European steel producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing 32 Table of Contents European markets, to grow its customer base in Europe by providing reliable delivery of high quality steel and to invest in value added facilities, including a planned automotive hot dip galvanizing line, to improve USSEs product mix. Expansion opportunities in Europe and North America would be attractive to U. S. Steel. South America, China and India are also possible areas of interest. In 2004, U. S. Steel concentrated on successfully integrating the businesses acquired in 2003 (discussed below), improving its balance sheet, increasing liquidity and continuing to strengthen its core steel businesses in order to be better positioned for further expansion and continued improvements to its existing facilities. An equity offering of 8 million common shares was completed in March 2004 for net proceeds of $294 million, which were primarily used to redeem certain senior notes. In April 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of its 10 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of its 9 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. In addition, USSK retired $281 million of long term debt in 2004. In total these debt repayments reduced annualized interest expense by approximately $50 million. Also during 2004, U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan and $30 million to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In October 2004, U. S. Steels $600 million revolving credit facility was amended and restated to: 1) extend the maturity to October 2009, 2) increase the borrowing base, 3) reduce the pricing for both borrowings and undrawn commitments, and 4) limit the application of many of the restrictive covenants. In February 2004, U. S. Steel continued to divest its non core assets when it sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. In 2003, U. S. Steel engaged in several significant transactions aimed at strengthening its core steel businesses. On May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy substantially all of the integrated steelmaking assets of National Steel Corporation (National). See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. The facilities that were acquired included two integrated steel plants, Granite City Works in Granite City, Illinois, and Great Lakes Works in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan; the Midwest Plant in Portage, Indiana; ProCoil Company LLC (ProCoil) in Canton, Michigan; a 50 percent equity interest in Double G Coatings Company, L.P. (Double G) near Jackson, Mississippi; the iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota (Keetac); and the Delray Connecting Railroad Company (Delray) in Michigan. This acquisition increased annual domestic raw steel production capability by 6.6 million net tons (tons) to 19.4 million tons. U. S. Steel and the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) reached a five year labor agreement that was effective upon the completion of the National acquisition and which covers both U. S. Steel and former National employees. This agreement allowed for a workforce restructuring aimed at achieving a 20 percent productivity improvement, expanded profit based variable compensation, provided cost sharing mechanisms for employee and retiree health care expenses, and provided a joint mechanism to consider further acquisitions of steel and steel related assets in North America. On September 12, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy Sartid a.d. (In Bankruptcy), an integrated steel company located in the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Sartid). U. S. Steel is operating these facilities as USSB. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. This acquisition increased annual European raw steel production capability by 2.4 million tons to 7.4 million tons. On June 30, 2003, U. S. Steel completed the sale of its coal mines and related assets (Mining Sale). As a result, U. S. Steel no longer mines any coal. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale. In a non monetary transaction in November 2003, U. S. Steels plate mill at Gary Works was exchanged for a pickling line located in East Chicago, Indiana. This was U. S. Steels only plate mill; however, U. S. Steel still produces plate in coil on its hot strip mills at Gary Works and at its European operations. 33 Table of Contents In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. Straightline Source (Straightline) was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2005. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total $230 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets for 2005 would have decreased or increased, respectively, the expected net periodic pension cost by $34 million. U. S. Steel determines the discount rate applied to pension and OPEB obligations at each year end or required interim period based on a number of external barometers used to measure the status of high quality bond rates consistent with the expected payout period of the obligations. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 6.0 percent to 5.75 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2005 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. Total OPEB costs in 2005 are expected to be approximately $109 million. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, a 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased pension and OPEB liabilities by $340 million and $110 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased pension and OPEB liabilities by $370 million and $120 million, respectively. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on 34 Table of Contents the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most salaried benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2005. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the escalation trend would have increased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $8 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the escalation trend would have decreased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $7 million in 2005. Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. The amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2004, was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of these net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004 and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2004, total accruals for environmental remediation were $123 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. 35 Table of Contents Segments During 2004, U. S. Steel had four reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE), Tubular Products (Tubular) and Real Estate. As of January 1, 2004, the residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. The application of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, resulted in U. S. Steel consolidating the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. (1314B Partnership) effective January 1, 2004. The results of the 1314B Partnership, which are included in the Flat rolled segment, were previously accounted for under the equity method. For further information, see Notes 4 and 18 to the Financial Statements. The National acquisition changed the composition of the Flat rolled segment and Other Businesses as described below, but did not result in a change in U. S. Steels reportable segments. Effective with the Mining Sale, Other Businesses are no longer involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. Effective with the acquisition of Sartid, the USSK segment was renamed USSE and includes the operating results of both USSK and USSB. Effective with the third quarter of 2003, the composition of the Flat rolled segment was changed to include the results of the coke operations at Clairton Works and Gary Works, which were previously reported in Other Businesses. This change reflected U. S. Steels management consolidations. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2003, benefit expenses for current retirees are separately identified and are no longer allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. These expenses include pensions, health care, life insurance and any profit based expenses for the benefit of retirees. Benefit expenses for active employees continue to be allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. Furthermore, U. S. Steel changed its methodology for allocating certain corporate costs. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for details. These changes were made so that operating results of U. S. Steels reportable segments will better reflect their current contribution and so that U. S. Steels segment results will be more comparable to those of its primary competitors who do not have significant fixed retiree obligations. Comparative results have been conformed to the current year presentation. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the service centers, conversion, transportation (including automotive), containers, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G, which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with Sartid. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service centers, appliance, containers, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed and developed for sale or lease. In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. In February 2004, U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. Prior to the disposition of these assets, results they generated were reported in the Real Estate segment. The Straightline segment included the operating results of U. S. Steels technology enabled distribution business that was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. 36 Table of Contents All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services, and engineering and consulting services. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of Keetac and Delray, which were acquired from National. Prior to the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer value for rounds supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and the transfer value of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs. Income The principal drivers of U. S. Steels financial results are price, volume, cost and product mix. To the extent that these factors are affected by industry conditions and the overall economic climate, revenues and income will reflect such conditions. Revenues and other income (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003(a) 2002 Revenues by product: Flat rolled steel products $ 11,549 $ 7,372 $ 5,115 Tubular 1,042 626 555 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore)(b) 705 419 513 Other(c) 673 911 766 Income (loss) from investees 57 (11 ) 33 Net gains on disposal of assets 57 85 29 Other income 25 56 43 Total revenues and other income $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Revenue from the sale of coal ceased with the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003. Includes revenue from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. Included revenue from steel mill products distribution prior to January 1, 2004, when the residual results of Straightline were included in Flat rolled; and revenue from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Total revenues and other income in 2004 increased $4,650 million compared to 2003. The increases primarily reflected higher average realized prices for Flat rolled, Tubular and European operations; higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet, tin and tubular products; higher shipment volumes for USSE; and higher revenues on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill and the absence of revenues from coal sales in 2004 due to the Mining Sale. Revenues for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues and other income in 2004 included a $43 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $36 million and other income of $7 million. Revenues and other income in 2003 included a net gain on disposal of assets of $55 million resulting from the timber contribution to the pension plan and a $47 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $13 million and other income of $34 million. Total revenues and other income in 2003 increased $2,404 million compared to 2002. The increase primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the Mining Sale, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. 37 Table of Contents Income from investees in 2002 included $39 million of insurance recoveries related to a 2001 fire at USS POSCO, other income included $38 million from a Federal excise tax refund, and gains on disposal of assets included $20 million from the sale of U. S. Steels shares of VSZ a.s. (VSZ). Profit based union payments Results for 2004 included costs of $241 million related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. Segment results for 2004 included $131 million of these costs and the balance was included in retiree benefit expenses. All of these costs are included in cost of revenues. Payment amounts per the agreement are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) to be contributed to a trust to assist National retirees with healthcare costs based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item are calculated in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $254 million in 2004, compared to $556 million in 2003 and a credit of $3 million in 2002. The costs in 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The credit in 2002 included $100 million of settlement losses. Excluding these one time charges, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. Excluding settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase of $212 million in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to a lower return on assets, a decline in the expected return on assets assumption and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $106 million in 2004, compared to $241 million in 2003 and $150 million in 2002. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. The increase in 2003 compared to 2002, excluding the curtailment charges, was primarily due to the addition of liabilities for National employees, changes in rate of retirement assumptions and a lower discount rate. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $18 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003 and 2002. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase in 2004 was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights and lower OPEB costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $673 million in 2003, compared to $418 million in 2002. The increase in 2003 was primarily due to higher pension and OPEB costs, increased compensation expense related 38 Table of Contents to stock appreciation rights, and higher expenses at USSE due mainly to unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange rate differences and increased business development expenses. These were partially offset by the favorable effect in 2003 of the absence of the impairment of retiree medical cost reimbursements receivable from Republic, which occurred in 2002. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for further details. Income (loss) from operations: (a) (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Flat rolled $ 1,185 $ (54 ) $ (84 ) USSE 394 203 110 Tubular 197 (25 ) (6 ) Real Estate 30 50 50 Straightline (70 ) (45 ) Total income (loss) from reportable segments 1,806 104 25 Other Businesses 28 (35 ) 33 Segment Income (Loss) from operations 1,834 69 58 Retiree benefit (expenses) credits (257 ) (107 ) 79 Other items not allocated to segments: Workforce reduction charges (including pension settlements) (17 ) (621 ) (100 ) Stock appreciation rights (23 ) (75 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Asset impairments (57 ) (14 ) Litigation items (25 ) 9 Costs related to Fairless shutdown (1 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire 39 Federal excise tax refund 38 Gain on VSZ share sale 20 Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,580 $ (730 ) $ 128 (a) See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices, which increased by $152 per ton; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. Flat rolled recorded a segment loss of $54 million in 2003, compared to a loss of $84 million in 2002. The decreased loss was primarily due to higher average realized prices and favorable effects resulting from ongoing cost improvement programs, the National acquisition and workforce reductions. These were partially offset by increased prices for raw materials, natural gas and utilities; higher employee benefit costs; increased costs for repair outages; and costs associated with the August 2003 power outage, which interrupted operations in Michigan and Ohio. 39 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income for 2004 was $394 million, compared to income of $203 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, which increased by $171 per ton, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. USSE segment income for the full year 2003 reflected an increase of $93 million from 2002. The improvement was primarily due to higher average realized prices as a result of favorable exchange rate effects and price increases, as well as higher shipment volumes. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, USSE shipments included those realized under toll conversion agreements with Sartid and, effective September 12, 2003, included all shipments from USSB (formerly Sartid). These improvements were partially offset by the unfavorable effect on costs of changes in foreign exchange rates; costs associated with the conversion and facility management agreements with Sartid, which were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition; and post acquisition operating losses at USSB including effects from a 38 day strike. Segment results for Tubular Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices, which increased by $233 per ton. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of tube rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which are transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. The segment loss for Tubular in 2003 reflected a decline of $19 million from 2002 primarily due to lower average realized prices for seamless products and higher natural gas prices, partially offset by increased shipment volumes for seamless products and income from the sale of Delta Tubular Processing. Segment results for Real Estate Real Estate segment income for 2004 was $30 million, down $20 million from 2003. The decrease primarily reflected lower mineral interest royalties as a result of the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Real Estate segment income for 2003 and 2002 was $50 million. Increased coal seam gas royalties were offset by lower real estate sales. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses recorded income of $28 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $35 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services. The loss for Other Businesses for 2003 reflected a decline of $68 million from income of $33 million in 2002. The decrease mainly reflected lower results from iron ore pellet operations due primarily to reduced shipment volumes, and lower results for coal operations and transportation services. Items not allocated to segments: Stock appreciation rights resulted in $23 million and $75 million of compensation expense accrued in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued over the last ten years and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. No stock appreciation rights were issued in 2004. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees, while the $100 million in 2002 reflected pension settlement losses related to retirements of personnel covered under the 40 Table of Contents non union qualified pension plan and the non qualified defined benefit pension plan. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels ongoing operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Asset impairments in 2002 were for charges related to reserves established against receivables exposure from financially distressed steel companies, primarily Republic. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of Real Estates remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain of Real Estates coal seam gas interests and from the Mining Sale. Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire represent U. S. Steels share of insurance recoveries in excess of facility repair costs for the cold reduction mill fire at USS POSCO, which occurred in May 2001. The final payment was received in December 2002. Federal excise tax refund represents the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales during the period 1993 through 1999. During 2002, U. S. Steel received cash and recognized pre tax income of $38 million, which is included in other income on the statement of operations. Of the $38 million received, $11 million represented interest. Net interest and other financial costs Net interest and other financial costs were $119 million in 2004, compared to $130 million in 2003 and $115 million in 2002. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. The decrease in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected lower interest on tax related liabilities, partially due to the more favorable 2004 adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes, more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and increased interest income. These favorable items were partially offset by a $33 million charge resulting from the early redemption of certain senior debt in April 2004. The $15 million increase from 2002 to 2003 was primarily due to interest on the new 9 3/4% senior notes, partially offset by more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and lower interest on tax related liabilities resulting from the favorable $17 million adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of both, and resulted in net gains of $32 million, $20 million and $16 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2004 was $351 million, compared to benefits in 2003 and 2002 of $454 million and $48 million, respectively. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefits in 2003 and 2002 included favorable effects relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million and $8 million, respectively. The change to a tax provision in 2004 as compared to tax benefits in the previous two years was primarily the result of pre tax income from domestic 41 Table of Contents operations recorded in 2004 compared to domestic pre tax losses in 2003 and 2002. The increase in the tax benefit in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to increased pre tax losses for domestic operations, including increased benefit costs. The Slovak Income Tax Act provides an income tax credit, which is available to USSK if certain conditions are met. In order to claim the tax credit in any year, 60 percent of USSKs sales must be export sales and USSK must reinvest the tax credits claimed in qualifying capital expenditures during the five years following the year in which the tax credit is claimed. The provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 100 percent of USSKs tax liability for years 2000 through 2004 and 50 percent of the current statutory rate of 19 percent for the years 2005 through 2009. Management believes that USSK fulfilled all of the necessary conditions for claiming the tax credit for the years for which it was claimed and anticipates meeting such requirements in 2005. As a result of claiming these tax credits and managements intent to reinvest earnings in foreign operations, virtually no income tax provision, except for the two $16 million tax payments discussed below, is recorded for USSK income. In connection with Slovakia joining the European Union (EU), the total tax credit granted to USSK for the period 2000 through 2009 was limited to $430 million, and USSK agreed to make tax payments of $16 million in 2004 and 2005, the first of which was paid in June 2004. Also, additional conditions for claiming the tax credit were established. These new conditions limit USSKs annual production of flat rolled product and its sales of all products into the 15 countries that were members of the EU prior to Slovakia and 9 other nations joining the EU in May 2004. Management believes the future impact of these changes will be minimal because Slovak tax laws have been modified and tax rates have been reduced since the acquisition of USSK; and the production and sales limits, which provide for annual increases through 2009, are not materially burdensome. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004, and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax liabilities of $314 million and $61 million, respectively. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2004, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the lack of historical information and the losses experienced in the months immediately following the acquisition of USSB. If USSB continues to generate income, the valuation allowance of $17 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2004 was $1,091 million, compared with a net loss of $463 million in 2003 and net income of $61 million in 2002. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Operations Flat rolled shipments were 15.6 million tons in 2004, 13.5 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from the facilities acquired from National, and 9.9 million tons in 2002. Tubular shipments were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 0.9 million tons in 2003 and 0.8 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 4 percent of U. S. Steels domestic shipments in 2004 and 2003, and 5 percent in 2002. USSE shipments were 5.0 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from USSB, and 4.0 million tons in 2002. 42 Table of Contents The acquisition of the assets of National on May 20, 2003, increased U. S. Steels stated annual raw steel production capability for domestic operations from 12.8 millions tons to 19.4 million tons. Raw steel production was 17.3 million tons in 2004, compared with 14.9 million tons in 2003, including production from the National assets following the acquisition, and 11.5 million tons in 2002. Raw steel production averaged 89 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 88 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the National capability on a prorata basis, and 90 percent of capability in 2002. All steel produced in U. S. Steels domestic facilities is continuous cast. Domestic capability utilization in 2004 and 2003 was reduced by scheduled blast furnace repair outages, which occurred in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2004 and in the second quarter of 2003. In 2002, domestic raw steel production was affected by poor market conditions during the first quarter, the acceleration into the fourth quarter of some blast furnace repair work that was originally scheduled to occur in 2003 and the high level of imports. The acquisition of Sartid on September 12, 2003, increased USSEs stated annual raw steel production capability from 5.0 million tons to 7.4 million tons. USSE raw steel production was 5.7 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including production from the Sartid assets following the acquisition, and 4.4 million tons in 2002. USSEs raw steel production averaged 77 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 84 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the Sartid capability on a prorata basis, and 88 percent in 2002. USSEs capability utilization in 2004 was reduced by the inclusion of USSB, as well as by operational difficulties with a blast furnace in Slovakia during the first quarter. USSEs capability utilization in 2003 was reduced by a blast furnace outage at USSK and the partial period inclusion of USSB as only about a third of its annual production capability was operational at the time of its acquisition in September 2003. USSBs capability utilization averaged 48 percent in 2004 and 20 percent in 2003 following the acquisition. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2004 increased $1,137 million from year end 2003 primarily due to increased cash balances and higher trade receivables. The increase in cash was mainly due to improved operations, $294 million of net proceeds from an equity offering and proceeds from the disposal of assets, partially offset by capital spending, the voluntary funding of benefit plans, the repayment of USSK debt and the redemption of certain senior notes. The increase in trade receivables primarily resulted from higher revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004, compared to last years fourth quarter, resulting mainly from higher steel prices. FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability is no longer required for this plan. Consequently, required entries were recorded that increased prepaid pensions by $2.48 billion, decreased the intangible pension asset by $440 million and resulted in a net credit to equity of $1.45 billion, which decreased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2004 decreased $325 million from year end 2003 and long term deferred income tax liabilities increased $592 million, primarily due to the elimination of federal and state deferred tax assets that were established in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2004 increased $404 million from year end 2003 mainly due to increases in accounts payable and payroll and benefits payable. The increase in accounts payable resulted mainly from higher raw materials costs and increased purchases of capital assets in late 2004 compared to the same period last year. The increase in payroll and benefits payable was primarily due to liabilities resulting from the profit based union payments that were previously discussed. Long term debt at December 31, 2004, was $1,363 million, $527 million lower than year end 2003. The decrease in debt was primarily due to the retirement of $281 million of USSK long term debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. 43 Table of Contents Employee benefits at December 31, 2004, decreased $257 million from year end 2003. Employee benefits at year end 2003 included the net pension liability related to an additional minimum liability adjustment for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan. In addition, OPEB liabilities decreased primarily because the sum of retiree medical benefit payments made in cash and a $30 million voluntary cash contribution to a trust exceeded the amount of retiree medical expense booked in 2004. Retiree medical expense was $60 million lower in 2004 as compared to 2003 due to recognition of the estimated effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and a cost cap negotiated with the USWA in 2003. For further information, see Estimated Future Benefit Payments in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Additional paid in capital increased by $354 million from the prior year end primarily reflecting U. S. Steels equity offering that was completed in March 2004. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities was $1,400 million in 2004, compared with $577 million in 2003. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items was partially offset by increased working capital requirements. Cash from operating activities in 2004 was reduced by $295 million of voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan, $186 million of OPEB payments, $50 million of payments to a multiemployer pension plan, $44 million of payments to pension plans not funded by trusts and $30 million of contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In 2003, OPEB payments were primarily funded by trusts. The $75 million in voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan in 2003 consisted of timber cutting rights valued at $59 million and $16 million of cash. Further contributions totaling $15 million were made to other smaller pension plans in 2003. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2006. Net cash provided from operating activities of $577 million in 2003 reflected an improvement of $298 million compared to 2002. The improvement resulted mainly from lower working capital requirements. Capital expenditures in 2004 were $579 million, compared with $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Major domestic projects in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills. Major projects at USSE in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $258 million, including $97 million for USSE. Major projects in 2002 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills and various projects at USSK, including continued work on the new tinning and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, completion of the scrap management and hot strip mill reheat furnace upgrade projects, commencement of work on a new dynamo line and installation of a vacuum degassing facility. U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2004, totaled $98 million compared with $23 million at December 31, 2003. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2004, was $257 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $135 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2004, leaving a balance of $22 million under this commitment. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements for further information. 44 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2005 are expected to be approximately $755 million, reflecting approximately $475 million for domestic operations and $280 million for European facilities. Domestic projects include the rebuild of the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, acquisition of mobile and mining equipment and coke oven thru wall repairs at Clairton Works and Gary Works. Projects in Slovakia include initial spending for a new automotive galvanizing line; and continuing work on air emissions reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include completion of the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace and steel production improvements. The preceding statement concerning expected 2005 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisitions in 2003 consisted of $839 million for the National assets, $29 million for USSB and a $37 million cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. The $38 million in 2002 was a cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. Disposal of assets in 2004 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of substantially all of the Real Estate segments remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Disposal of assets in 2003 consisted mainly of proceeds from the Mining Sale, cash collections on notes received in prior years asset disposals, the sale of the former National headquarters building and the sale of U. S. Steels interest in Delta Tubular Processing. Disposal of assets in 2002 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of U. S. Steels investment in stock of VSZ. Restricted cash Net deposits of $32 million in 2003 and $67 million in 2002 were mainly used to collateralize letters of credit to meet financial assurance requirements. Issuance of long term debt in 2003 resulted from the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May, net of deferred financing costs associated with the notes and the inventory facility. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2004 mainly reflected the retirement of long term USSK debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2003 and 2002 was mainly the USSK debt. Preferred stock issued in 2003 reflected net proceeds from the offering of 5 million shares of Series B Preferred. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004. The remaining amount mainly reflected proceeds from stock sales through the exercise of options. The 2003 amount primarily reflected sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. The 2002 amount primarily reflected $192 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in May 2002, as well as sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Dividends paid in 2004 were $39 million, compared with $35 million in 2003 and $19 million in 2002. Payments in all three periods reflected the quarterly dividend rate of five cents per common share. Dividends paid in 2004 also reflected a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share for the Series B Preferred. Dividends paid in 2003 also included an initial dividend of $1.206 per share for the Series B Preferred, which was paid on June 15, 2003, and a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share thereafter. The quarterly dividend rate per common share was increased to eight cents effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Debt and Convertible Preferred Shares Ratings On November 5, 2004, Moodys Investors Service upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating two steps, from B1 to Ba2. On November 12, 2004, Standard & Poors Ratings Services upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating from BB to BB and raised the preferred stock rating from B to B. 45 Table of Contents Liquidity In November 2001, U. S. Steel entered into a five year Receivables Purchase Agreement with financial institutions. U. S. Steel established a wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), which is a consolidated special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity that acquires, on a daily basis, eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries. USSR can sell an undivided interest in these receivables to certain commercial paper conduits. USSR pays the conduits a discount based on the conduits borrowing costs plus incremental fees, certain of which are determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, which increased fundings under the facility to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. Eligible receivables exclude certain obligors, amounts in excess of defined percentages for certain obligors, and amounts past due or due beyond a defined period. In addition, eligible receivables are calculated by deducting certain reserves, which are based on various determinants including concentration, dilution and loss percentages, as well as the credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had more than $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. While the term of the Receivables Purchase Agreement is five years, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed below and other debt obligations, any failure of USSR to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables, and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 23, 2005. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a four year revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by all domestic inventory and related assets (Inventory Facility), including receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The Inventory Facility contained a number of covenants that may have limited U. S. Steels ability to incur debt, make capital expenditures, sell assets, incur liens and make dividend and other restricted payments. The Inventory Facility also included a fixed charge coverage ratio test, which had to be met if availability was less than $100 million. In October 2004, the Inventory Facility was amended and restated to extend its maturity until October 2009, increase advance rates on semi finished and raw materials, reduce certain reserves, and modify pricing terms. In addition, many of the restrictive covenants apply now only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had in excess of $600 million of eligible inventory under the Inventory Facility, and utilized $6 million for letters of credit, reducing availability to $594 million. At December 31, 2004, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. In the third quarter of 2004, USSB entered into a new EUR 9.3 million (which approximated $12.7 million at December 31, 2004) committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility has a term of one year, and can be extended by mutual agreement of the parties for up to two additional one year periods. At December 31, 2004, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes), and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. 46 Table of Contents The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.2 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $118 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2004, an increase of $5 million during 2004, and expects to commit approximately $10 million to $20 million more during 2005. U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2004, in the amount of $42 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as obligations relating to Industrial Development and Environmental Improvement Bonds and Notes in the amount of $472 million and certain lease obligations totaling $190 million that were assumed by U. S. Steel from Marathon, may be declared immediately due and payable. 47 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2004: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents (a) $ 1,021 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSE credit facilities 69 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,184 (a) Excludes $16 million of cash, which resulted from the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership, because it is not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity at December 31, 2004 increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2004, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,373 $ 8 $ 33 $ 379 $ 953 Operating leases(b) 460 118 169 57 116 Capital commitments(c) 355 59 39 257 USSB Commitments 22 3 19 Environmental commitments(c) 123 21 102 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e ) 26 55 29 (e ) Other postretirement benefits (f ) 243 545 475 (f ) Total contractual obligations (g ) $ 475 $ 844 $ 959 (g ) (a) See Note 17 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2005 through 2009 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to 48 Table of Contents pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets which were managed by the Real Estate segment, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit plan in 2005. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $12 million to plans not funded by trusts in 2005. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2004, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 93 $ 65 $ 20 $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 21 4 17 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 28 28 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 25 8 1 14 2 Contingent liabilities: Marathon obligations(a)(d) 42 15 19 8 Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 1,627 1,001 383 152 91 Total commercial commitments $ 1,986 $ 1,093 $ 423 $ 174 $ 296 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of substrate and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In 2003, U. S. Steel entered into two off balance sheet arrangements for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. These operating lease arrangements are with special purpose trusts (SPTs). The SPTs financed the construction of the facilities and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficial owners of the SPTs. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of these entities. There are no guarantees of the obligations of these SPTs by U. S. Steel, and U. S. Steel would incur no significant penalties that would result in the reasonable assurance of continuation of the leases. U. S. Steels transactions with the SPTs are limited to the operating lease agreements, and the associated 49 Table of Contents lease expense is included in cost of revenues on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate these SPTs because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has unconditional supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 4 and Note 18 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 15 year agreement for the supply of electric power at Gary Works in Indiana, expiring in 2011. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of a 161 megawatt steam extraction turbine for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. Gary Works employees operate and maintain the facility and Gary Works supplies the steam for the turbine. This power is the first dispatched source of power to Gary Works. There are no take or pay obligations associated with this requirements contract and U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement results in an increase of approximately $60 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required 50 Table of Contents to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. 51 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Domestic: Capital $ 24 $ 8 $ 4 Compliance Operating & maintenance 241 206 171 Remediation(b) 18 38 36 Total Domestic $ 283 $ 252 $ 211 USSE: Capital $ 97 $ 22 $ 10 Compliance Operating & maintenance 8 10 8 Remediation(b) 3 3 1 Total USSE $ 108 $ 35 $ 19 Total U. S. Steel $ 391 $ 287 $ 230 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 21 percent of total capital expenditures in 2004, 10 percent in 2003 and 5 percent in 2002. Compliance expenditures represented 2 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2004, and 3 percent in 2003 and 2002. Remediation spending during 2002 to 2004 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2004, U. S. Steel accrued $34 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2004, was $123 million. Environmental spending in 2004 totaled $23 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2005. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $128 million in 2005, $69 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2005 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2006, including $90 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured electric cable; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. 53 Table of Contents Outlook for 2005 First quarter 2005 average realized prices for Flat rolled are expected to remain in line with or increase slightly from fourth quarter levels; however, results will be negatively affected by higher costs for raw materials, as well as slightly lower shipments. For full year 2005, Flat rolled shipments are expected to be about 15.4 million tons, reflecting the planned outage at the Gary No. 13 blast furnace. For USSE, first quarter average realized prices are expected to be moderately higher than in the fourth quarter of 2004, with shipments remaining about the same and costs for raw materials increasing significantly. USSE shipments for full year 2005 are projected to increase by about 15 percent to approximately 5.8 million net tons due mainly to higher operating levels at the Serbian facilities following the planned mid year startup of a second blast furnace. Shipments for Tubular in the first quarter of 2005 are expected to be at about the same level as in 2004s fourth quarter, while average realized prices are expected to continue to increase. Tubular announced price increases for certain products ranging from $50 to $250 per ton effective in January 2005. Full year shipments are expected to increase to 1.2 million tons. Costs will increase as a result of annual transfer value adjustments for semi finished steel, which comprehend raw material cost escalation, and higher costs for purchased rounds. First quarter 2005 results for Other Businesses will decline compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 due to normal seasonal effects at iron ore operations in Minnesota. In accordance with the previously announced settlement agreement with the City of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana regarding past years Gary Works personal property taxes, a Lake County appeals board is expected to consider a motion to resolve the appeals in accordance with the proposed settlement in early 2005. If the settlement is approved and becomes final as submitted, U. S. Steel would pay $44 million and would recognize a favorable income effect reflecting the reversal of liabilities accrued in excess of the settlement amount. Total costs in 2005 for domestic defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately the same as in 2004. For further information, see Critical Accounting Estimates Pensions and OPEB. This outlook contains forward looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices, tax settlements and employee benefit costs. Some factors, among others, that could affect market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both domestic operations and USSE include global product demand, prices and mix; global and company steel production levels; plant operating performance; the timing and completion of facility projects; natural gas prices and usage; raw materials availability and prices; changes in environmental, tax and other laws; employee strikes; power outages; legal proceedings regarding the proposed Gary Works tax settlement and U.S. and global economic performance and political developments. Domestic steel shipments and prices could be affected by import levels and actions taken by the U.S. Government and its agencies. Political factors in Europe that may affect USSEs results include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures. Future pension costs will be influenced by the market performance of plan assets, laws and regulations regarding discount rates and other calculations, and other economic factors. Future costs for active and retiree medical benefits will be influenced by medical inflation rates, future laws and regulations and retiree participation levels. Accounting Standards In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R) which addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that do not have sufficient equity investment to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. The Interpretation provides guidance related to identifying variable interest entities and determining whether such entities should be consolidated. It also provides guidance related to the initial and subsequent measurement of assets, liabilities and 54 Table of Contents noncontrolling interests in newly consolidated variable interest entities and requires disclosures for both the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and other beneficiaries of the entity. In accordance with FIN 46R, U. S. Steel consolidated the 1314B Partnership as of January 1, 2004. See further discussion in Note 18 to the Financial statements. In May 2004, FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106 2 (FSP FAS 106 2), Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Drug Act) was issued. FSP FAS 106 2 finalizes the accounting for the Drug Act and specifies that the effect of the Federal subsidy on a benefit plans accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) shall be accounted for as an actuarial experience gain. U. S. Steel accounted for the estimated effects of the Drug Act on its APBO as of December 31, 2003. Estimated savings of $450 million were included as an actuarial gain primarily due to changes in participation assumptions caused by the impact of the Drug Act in combination with the cost cap negotiated with the USWA in May 2003 and due to savings from reduced costs for mineworker participants because it is anticipated that the mineworkers union drug program will qualify for the Federal subsidy. Periodic postretirement benefit costs for 2004 were reduced by $60 million due to the estimated impact of these changes. There may also be significant clarifications of the Drug Act in future years that could significantly alter some or all of U. S. Steels assumptions. Furthermore, the participant withdrawal rates could occur at a different pace than has been assumed and the estimated savings could be greater or less than currently identified. No guidance has been issued regarding the effects of the Drug Act on U. S. Steels liabilities under the Coal Act of 1992, which is currently being accounted for under FAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 151 Inventory Costs (FAS 151) which amends ARB 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expenses, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges. In addition, FAS 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of FAS 151 are effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to inventory costs incurred on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect this Statement to have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, (FAS 123R) which is a revision of FAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, (FAS 123) and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. This Statement applies to U. S. Steel for all awards granted on or after July 1, 2005, and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after July 1, 2005, for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for pro forma disclosures. U. S. Steel expects the effect of adopting this Statement on 2005 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $15 million. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 152, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 66 and 67. This Statement amends FASB Statements No. 66 and 67 in association with the issuance of SOP 04 2, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, which applies to all real estate time sharing transactions. This Statement is effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to any real estate time sharing transactions occurring on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not have any real estate time sharing arrangements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. This Statement eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29 and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. This Statement specifies that a nonmonetary 55 Table of Contents exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of this Statement are effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this Statement prospectively to nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring on or after January 1, 2006. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, (FSP FAS 109 1) which states that the FASB staff believes that the qualified production activities deduction provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109 (FAS 109.) This FSP was effective upon issuance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which states that the FASB staff believes that the lack of clarification of certain provisions within the Act and the timing of the enactment necessitate a practical exemption to the FAS 109 requirement to reflect in the period of enactment the effect of a new tax law. Accordingly, an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying FAS 109. See Note 13 to the Financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas, heating oil and nonferrous metals and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. 56 Table of Contents Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pre tax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Decrease of(a) 2004 2003 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Zinc 2.9 7.2 1.2 3.1 Tin NA NA 0.0 0.1 Natural Gas 1.8 4.4 0.9 2.2 (a) The definition of a derivative instrument includes certain fixed price physical commodity contracts. Such instruments are included in the above table. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2004, may cause future pre tax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $4 million in 2004, compared to a gain of $1 million in 2003 and a loss of $6 million in 2002. These gains and losses were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For additional quantitative information relating to derivative commodity instruments, see Note 25 to the Financial Statements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2004 and 2003 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) As of December 31 2004 2003 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFair Value(c) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFairValue(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 8 $ $ 16 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f) $ 1,419 $ 50 $ 1,993 $ 90 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 23 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. (d) For additional information, see Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (e) Includes amounts due within one year. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 17 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels portfolio of long term debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $50 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases 57 Table of Contents in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $14.3 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $47.0 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2004 euro forward rates would result in a $6.1 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 58 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSKs environmental expenses in 2004 included usage fees, permit fees and or penalties totaling approximately $6 million. There are no legal proceedings pending against USSK involving environmental matters. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First 18 Table of Contents Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently less restrictive than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. The 1997 Kyoto Global Climate Change Agreement produced by the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, which would have required restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the United States, has not been ratified by the U.S. Senate, and it appears unlikely that it will be implemented domestically in the near future. It is unclear what international action will be taken concerning greenhouse gases or the economic impact of such programs; however, inter government discussions continue. Air The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a federally mandated operating permit program and enhanced civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. The principal impact of the CAA on U. S. Steel is on the cokemaking and primary steelmaking operations of U. S. Steel, as described in this section. The CAA requires the regulation of hazardous air pollutants and development and promulgation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) Standards. It was determined in 1995 that the Chrome Electroplating MACT did not apply to steel mill sources; however, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) stated that MACT standards applicable to these sources would be forthcoming. To date, there has been no action taken. Potentially affected U. S. Steel facilities are the electrolytic tinning lines at Gary Works and the tin free steel lines at East Chicago Tin and the Midwest Plant. The EPA finalized MACT standards for integrated iron and steel plants on May 20, 2003, that require compliance by May 22, 2006. The taconite iron ore processing MACT was finalized on October 30, 2003, and requires compliance by October 30, 2006. U. S. Steel anticipates that additional emissions control equipment will be needed to comply with the taconite iron ore processing MACT at Minntac and Keetac. Costs associated with compliance with these MACT standards are included in the capital expenditures disclosed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. The CAA specifically addressed the regulation and control of coke oven batteries. The National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants for coke oven batteries was finalized in October 1993, setting forth the MACT standard and, as an alternative, a Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) standard. Effective January 1998, U. S. Steel elected to comply with the LAER standards. U. S. Steel believes it will be able to meet the current LAER standards. The LAER standards will be further revised in 2010 and additional health risk based standards are expected to be adopted in 2020. The EPA finalized the Phase II Coke MACT for pushing, quenching and battery stacks on April 14, 2003, that requires compliance by April 14, 2006. U. S. Steel is in the process of developing an estimate of the cost to comply. 19 Table of Contents In September 1997, the EPA adopted revisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone and particulate matter, which are significantly more stringent than prior standards. The EPA is also developing regulations to address Regional Haze. The impact of these revised standards could be significant to U. S. Steel, but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated until the final regulations are promulgated and, more importantly, the states implement their State Implementation Plans covering their standards. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains the necessary discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts its operations to be in compliance with such permits. For additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 22,000 domestically and approximately 26,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented 20 Table of Contents by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in February 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Represented employees at USSB are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. All other filings are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the Securities and Exchange Commissions web site, the Internet address of which is www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on revenues and income (loss) of the reportable segments and Other Businesses and on revenues and other income and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 5 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 57 and F 58. 21 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Olympic Laser Processing(b) Van Buren, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Pipe Mills Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar and Delray Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 22 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Granite City, Illinois, which had been subject to a lease through 2012, was purchased in June 2004. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 215 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 23 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) Approximately 4 percent did not specify any damages sought at all, approximately 6 percent alleged damages of $1.0 million or less, another 0.6 percent alleged damages between $2.0 million and $10.0 million, and 0.4 percent alleged damages over $10 million. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 17,100 active claims outstanding. In 2002, U. S. Steel settled 1,135 claims for a total of approximately $700,000, and had a total of 2,662 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and 842 new claims filed. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that 24 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2004, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 20 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 8 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 10 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of sharing in any final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In 1988, U. S. Steel and two other PRPs (Bethlehem Steel Corporation and William Fiore) agreed to the issuance of an administrative order by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to undertake emergency removal work at the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. The cost of such removal, which has been completed, was approximately $4.2 million, of which U. S. Steel paid $3.4 million. EPA indicated that further remediation of this site would be required. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. After a Feasibility Study (FS) by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) and submission of a conceptual remedial action plan in 2001 by U. S. Steel, U. S. Steel submitted a revised conceptual remedial action plan on May 31, 2002. U. S. Steel and PADEP signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible 25 Table of Contents for remediation of this site. On March 18, 2003, PADEP notified U. S. Steel that the public comment period was concluded and the Consent Order and Agreement is final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $7.0 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from EPA requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/FS. The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project based on the groups selection from the range of alternatives presented in the FS is estimated to be $6.4 million. Of that total, U. S. Steels allocable share among the eight PRPs is approximately $1.0 million. In addition, U. S. Steels share of PRP group costs is expected to be less than $100,000 in 2005. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities The following is a discussion of other remediation activities at the major domestic U. S. Steel facilities: There are 39 additional sites related to U. S. Steel where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 4 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 17 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 5 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. Another 4 sites, including the Grand Calumet River remediation at Gary Works, the closure of hazardous waste sites at Gary Works, the claim for investigation, restoration and compensation of injuries to sediments in the east branch of the Grand Calumet River near Gary Works, and corrective action and groundwater investigation at Gary Works, have or are expected to have costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation in excess of $5 million. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. In 1999, U. S. Steel paid civil penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs. In addition, U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with NPDES requirements. The sediment remediation project is an approved final interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works. As of December 31, 2004, project costs have amounted to $51.5 million with another $100,000 presently projected to complete work under the approved sediment remediation plan. A Dredge Completion Report was submitted to EPA on March 29, 2004. EPA responded with written comments on the report. In response, U. S. Steel conducted additional sampling of river sediments in a portion of the dredge project area. Based on the results of the additional sediment sampling, U. S. Steel is considering additional dredging that would include additional substantial bank stabilization measures. Negotiations to have this additional work considered as a final measure are proceeding. The additional dredging and bank stabilization is anticipated to cost approximately $9.0 million. At the conclusion of the dredge project, the Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) will remain available and could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective 26 Table of Contents measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to the Administrative Order on Consent for corrective action. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $4.9 million. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River, costs of which are estimated to be $2.4 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property. The D2 disposal site and a nearby refuse area will be closed collectively. Total costs to close D2, D5, T2 and the refuse area are estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The public trustees completed a preassessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have determined to perform a Natural Resources Damages Assessment. U. S. Steel was identified as a PRP along with 15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. U. S. Steel and eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The trustees notified the public of their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. In 2000, the trustees concluded their assessment of sediment injuries, which included a technical review of environmental conditions. The PRP joint defense group has proposed terms for the settlement of this claim, which have been endorsed by representatives of the trustees and EPA to be included in a consent decree that U. S. Steel expects will resolve this claim. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs, and obtained an 8 acre parcel of land that has been transferred to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for addition to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Park owned by the National Park Service. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement has been executed by the parties and lodged with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana on August 20, 2004. Concurrent with this lodging of the Consent Decree, the United States of America filed its complaint titled United States of America v. Atlantic Richfield, et. al. asserting liability for its claim against the settling parties. In December 2004, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) filed a motion with the court that requested approval and entry of the consent decree. On October 23, 1998, a final Administrative Order on Consent was issued by EPA addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. The Current Conditions Report, U. S. Steels first deliverable, was submitted to EPA in January 1997 and was approved by EPA in 1998. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans and a self implementing interim measure have been submitted to EPA for approval. Two other self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $14.9 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations and the submitted work plans is estimated to be $6.4 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to present. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $424,000. 27 Table of Contents Fairfield Works In December 1995, U. S. Steel reached an agreement in principle with EPA and DOJ with respect to alleged RCRA violations at Fairfield Works. A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and DOJ and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved for the site on September 16, 2002. Field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel is currently preparing a Phase I RFI Report for submission to ADEM in early 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $414,000. In addition, U. S. Steel is developing a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. Lower Opossum Creek is approximately 4.5 miles of the Opossum Creek Area of Concern. U. S. Steel is investigating Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the investigation costs. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of this investigation and costs to implement sediment remediation to be $823,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $478,000. Lorain Pipe Mills In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe), was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. USS/Kobe and EPA commenced settlement negotiations in July 1999. In August 1999, the steelmaking and bar producing operations of USS/Kobe were combined with companies controlled by Blackstone Capital Partners II to form Republic. The tubular operations of USS/Kobe were transferred to a newly formed entity, Lorain Tubular Company, LLC (Lorain Tubular), which operated as a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe until December 31, 1999, when U. S. Steel purchased all of Kobes interest in Lorain Tubular. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Pipe Mills. U. S. Steel and EPA have agreed upon terms of settlement that include a cash penalty for U. S. Steel of $100,000 plus a supplemental environmental project to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Negotiations on the final terms and conditions of the consent decree are ongoing. Most of the matters raised by EPA relate to Republics facilities; however, air discharges from U. S. Steels No. 3 seamless pipe mill were also cited and U. S. Steel will be responsible for conducting a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. U. S. Steel will be responsible only for matters relating to its facilities. Issues related to Republic have been resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works U. S. Steel has agreed to the terms of a consent decree that will include the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the BOP; a civil penalty of $950,000; and a supplemental environmental project at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Great Lakes Works continues to identify and evaluate potential operating practices and facility improvements to reduce emissions. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $12.9 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through December 31, 2004. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $363,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. 28 Table of Contents Geneva Works In November 1989, the Utah Department of Environmental Quality issued a permit to U. S. Steel for the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments including facility wide corrective action at U. S. Steels former Geneva Works. The permit was administratively extended until May 14, 2004, when it was reissued to U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company (Geneva), the site owner. The permit allocates responsibility for corrective action between U. S. Steel and Geneva. U. S. Steel has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations on some areas of the facility for which U. S. Steel has responsibility under the permit. The remaining costs to prepare these work plans, implement field investigations and continue post closure care on the three hazardous waste impoundments are estimated to be approximately $5.6 million. On June 2, 2004, Geneva filed a motion in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Utah to approve the amendment and assumption of the 1987 Asset Sales Agreement, the acceptance of the permit and the retention of a remediation contractor. On July 7, 2004, the motion was heard and granted providing for Genevas continuing involvement and funding of the remediation required by the permit. Other In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The site was owned by Armour Agriculture Chemical Company (now named Viad) from 1912 to 1968. U. S. Steel owned the site from 1968 to 1986 and sold the site to LaRoche Industries in 1986. The agreed order allocated responsibility for assessment and cleanup costs as follows: Viad 48 percent, U. S. Steel 26 percent and LaRoche 26 percent; and LaRoche was appointed to be the lead party responsible for conducting the cleanup. In March 2001, U. S. Steel was notified that LaRoche had filed for protection under bankruptcy law. On August 23, 2001, the allocation of responsibility for this site assessment and cleanup and the cost allocation was approved by the bankruptcy court in the LaRoche bankruptcy. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $801,000, based on the allocation factor of 26 percent. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas. The site is a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. U. S. Steel agreed in a Consent Order before KDHE, signed April 7, 2003, with KDHE and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Under that agreement, U. S. Steel and SSB each bear a 50 percent share of the costs of those responsibilities. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.2 million. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2005, are as follows: John J. Connelly 58 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 56 Executive Vice PresidentOperations Gretchen R. Haggerty 49 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer Christopher J. Navetta 56 President, U. S. Steel Kosice, s.r.o. Dan D. Sandman 56 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 55 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 57 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 50 President and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 55. As of January 31, 2005, there were 31,747 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2004, no unregistered shares were issued. 30 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2004(a) 2003 2002 2001(b) 2000(b) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues and other income(c)(d) $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 $ 6,375 $ 6,132 Income (loss) from operations(e) 1,580 (730 ) 128 (405 ) 104 Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) 1,077 (406 ) 61 (218 ) (21 ) Net income (loss)(e) $ 1,091 $ (463 ) $ 61 $ (218 ) $ (21 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(f) basic $ 9.47 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.37 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Net income (loss)(f) basic 9.60 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.48 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Dividends paid(g) .20 .20 .20 .55 1.00 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 10,956 $ 7,837 $ 7,977 $ 8,337 $ 8,711 Capitalization: Notes payable $ $ $ $ $ 70 Long term debt including amount due within one year(h) 1,371 1,933 1,434 1,466 2,375 Preferred stock of subsidiary(i) 66 Trust Preferred Securities(i) 183 Stockholders equity 3,970 1,093 2,027 2,506 1,919 Total capitalization $ 5,341 $ 3,026 $ 3,461 $ 3,972 $ 4,613 (a) Includes minor revisions from the unaudited results reported on Form 8 K filed on January 25, 2005. Unaudited results for the year ended December 31, 2004, were income from operations of $1,584 million and net income of $1,085 million, or $8.44 per diluted share. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon). On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2000, and the income statement for each of the two years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, represent a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. Stockholders equity as of December 31, 2000, represents the combined net assets of the businesses comprising U. S. Steel (Marathons net investment in U. S. Steel). (c) Consists of revenues, dividend and investee income (loss), net gains on disposal of assets and other income (loss). (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in revenues and other income from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic, which was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. These were partially offset by reduced domestic tubular and plate shipment volumes. The increase in revenues and other income from 2000 to 2001 was mainly due to the inclusion of USSK revenues for the full year, the inclusion of Transtar revenues following the reorganization and higher income from investees relating to the gain on the Transtar reorganization; partially offset by lower domestic sheet, tubular and plate shipment volumes, lower average realized prices for domestic sheet products, and the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. The decrease from 2000 to 2001 mainly resulted from lower prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; higher employee benefit costs; lower results from coal, iron ore pellet and tin operations; and increased asset impairments; partially offset by a full year of income from USSK and the gain on the Transtar reorganization. (f) See Note 11 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (g) For years 2000 and 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (h) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease in long term debt from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to transactions related to the separation from Marathon. (i) At the separation from Marathon, these securities were either redeemed for cash by Marathon, or retained by Marathon and redeemed or repaid in January 2002. 31 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel is the second largest integrated steel producer in North America and has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume; selling prices; production costs; and value added product mix, since these products typically provide a higher profit margin than more commodity type steel products. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on its ability to implement the strategy described below. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, and U. S. Steel in particular, include the sustainability of higher steel prices; the steep increase in the cost of purchased raw materials; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has led to much of the recent volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States increased significantly during 2004 and could continue to increase depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, and consumption in the United States versus other regions. Strategy U. S. Steels business strategy is to continue to grow its investment in high end finishing assets, expand its global business platform, reduce its costs and become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets where management believes that U. S. Steels leadership position, production and processing capabilities and technical service provide a competitive advantage. These products include advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets for the construction industry, improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods. U. S. Steel continues to enhance its value added businesses through the upgrading and modernization of its key production facilities. U. S. Steel continues to be interested in participating in further consolidation of the North American steel industry if it would be beneficial to customers, shareholders, creditors and employees. U. S. Steel continues to explore additional opportunities for steel and raw materials investments in Europe. U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading European steel producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing 32 Table of Contents European markets, to grow its customer base in Europe by providing reliable delivery of high quality steel and to invest in value added facilities, including a planned automotive hot dip galvanizing line, to improve USSEs product mix. Expansion opportunities in Europe and North America would be attractive to U. S. Steel. South America, China and India are also possible areas of interest. In 2004, U. S. Steel concentrated on successfully integrating the businesses acquired in 2003 (discussed below), improving its balance sheet, increasing liquidity and continuing to strengthen its core steel businesses in order to be better positioned for further expansion and continued improvements to its existing facilities. An equity offering of 8 million common shares was completed in March 2004 for net proceeds of $294 million, which were primarily used to redeem certain senior notes. In April 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of its 10 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of its 9 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. In addition, USSK retired $281 million of long term debt in 2004. In total these debt repayments reduced annualized interest expense by approximately $50 million. Also during 2004, U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan and $30 million to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In October 2004, U. S. Steels $600 million revolving credit facility was amended and restated to: 1) extend the maturity to October 2009, 2) increase the borrowing base, 3) reduce the pricing for both borrowings and undrawn commitments, and 4) limit the application of many of the restrictive covenants. In February 2004, U. S. Steel continued to divest its non core assets when it sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. In 2003, U. S. Steel engaged in several significant transactions aimed at strengthening its core steel businesses. On May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy substantially all of the integrated steelmaking assets of National Steel Corporation (National). See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. The facilities that were acquired included two integrated steel plants, Granite City Works in Granite City, Illinois, and Great Lakes Works in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan; the Midwest Plant in Portage, Indiana; ProCoil Company LLC (ProCoil) in Canton, Michigan; a 50 percent equity interest in Double G Coatings Company, L.P. (Double G) near Jackson, Mississippi; the iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota (Keetac); and the Delray Connecting Railroad Company (Delray) in Michigan. This acquisition increased annual domestic raw steel production capability by 6.6 million net tons (tons) to 19.4 million tons. U. S. Steel and the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) reached a five year labor agreement that was effective upon the completion of the National acquisition and which covers both U. S. Steel and former National employees. This agreement allowed for a workforce restructuring aimed at achieving a 20 percent productivity improvement, expanded profit based variable compensation, provided cost sharing mechanisms for employee and retiree health care expenses, and provided a joint mechanism to consider further acquisitions of steel and steel related assets in North America. On September 12, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy Sartid a.d. (In Bankruptcy), an integrated steel company located in the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Sartid). U. S. Steel is operating these facilities as USSB. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. This acquisition increased annual European raw steel production capability by 2.4 million tons to 7.4 million tons. On June 30, 2003, U. S. Steel completed the sale of its coal mines and related assets (Mining Sale). As a result, U. S. Steel no longer mines any coal. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale. In a non monetary transaction in November 2003, U. S. Steels plate mill at Gary Works was exchanged for a pickling line located in East Chicago, Indiana. This was U. S. Steels only plate mill; however, U. S. Steel still produces plate in coil on its hot strip mills at Gary Works and at its European operations. 33 Table of Contents In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. Straightline Source (Straightline) was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2005. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total $230 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets for 2005 would have decreased or increased, respectively, the expected net periodic pension cost by $34 million. U. S. Steel determines the discount rate applied to pension and OPEB obligations at each year end or required interim period based on a number of external barometers used to measure the status of high quality bond rates consistent with the expected payout period of the obligations. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 6.0 percent to 5.75 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2005 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. Total OPEB costs in 2005 are expected to be approximately $109 million. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, a 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased pension and OPEB liabilities by $340 million and $110 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased pension and OPEB liabilities by $370 million and $120 million, respectively. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on 34 Table of Contents the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most salaried benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2005. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the escalation trend would have increased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $8 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the escalation trend would have decreased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $7 million in 2005. Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. The amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2004, was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of these net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004 and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2004, total accruals for environmental remediation were $123 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. 35 Table of Contents Segments During 2004, U. S. Steel had four reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE), Tubular Products (Tubular) and Real Estate. As of January 1, 2004, the residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. The application of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, resulted in U. S. Steel consolidating the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. (1314B Partnership) effective January 1, 2004. The results of the 1314B Partnership, which are included in the Flat rolled segment, were previously accounted for under the equity method. For further information, see Notes 4 and 18 to the Financial Statements. The National acquisition changed the composition of the Flat rolled segment and Other Businesses as described below, but did not result in a change in U. S. Steels reportable segments. Effective with the Mining Sale, Other Businesses are no longer involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. Effective with the acquisition of Sartid, the USSK segment was renamed USSE and includes the operating results of both USSK and USSB. Effective with the third quarter of 2003, the composition of the Flat rolled segment was changed to include the results of the coke operations at Clairton Works and Gary Works, which were previously reported in Other Businesses. This change reflected U. S. Steels management consolidations. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2003, benefit expenses for current retirees are separately identified and are no longer allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. These expenses include pensions, health care, life insurance and any profit based expenses for the benefit of retirees. Benefit expenses for active employees continue to be allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. Furthermore, U. S. Steel changed its methodology for allocating certain corporate costs. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for details. These changes were made so that operating results of U. S. Steels reportable segments will better reflect their current contribution and so that U. S. Steels segment results will be more comparable to those of its primary competitors who do not have significant fixed retiree obligations. Comparative results have been conformed to the current year presentation. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the service centers, conversion, transportation (including automotive), containers, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G, which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with Sartid. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service centers, appliance, containers, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed and developed for sale or lease. In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. In February 2004, U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. Prior to the disposition of these assets, results they generated were reported in the Real Estate segment. The Straightline segment included the operating results of U. S. Steels technology enabled distribution business that was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. 36 Table of Contents All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services, and engineering and consulting services. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of Keetac and Delray, which were acquired from National. Prior to the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer value for rounds supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and the transfer value of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs. Income The principal drivers of U. S. Steels financial results are price, volume, cost and product mix. To the extent that these factors are affected by industry conditions and the overall economic climate, revenues and income will reflect such conditions. Revenues and other income (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003(a) 2002 Revenues by product: Flat rolled steel products $ 11,549 $ 7,372 $ 5,115 Tubular 1,042 626 555 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore)(b) 705 419 513 Other(c) 673 911 766 Income (loss) from investees 57 (11 ) 33 Net gains on disposal of assets 57 85 29 Other income 25 56 43 Total revenues and other income $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Revenue from the sale of coal ceased with the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003. Includes revenue from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. Included revenue from steel mill products distribution prior to January 1, 2004, when the residual results of Straightline were included in Flat rolled; and revenue from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Total revenues and other income in 2004 increased $4,650 million compared to 2003. The increases primarily reflected higher average realized prices for Flat rolled, Tubular and European operations; higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet, tin and tubular products; higher shipment volumes for USSE; and higher revenues on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill and the absence of revenues from coal sales in 2004 due to the Mining Sale. Revenues for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues and other income in 2004 included a $43 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $36 million and other income of $7 million. Revenues and other income in 2003 included a net gain on disposal of assets of $55 million resulting from the timber contribution to the pension plan and a $47 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $13 million and other income of $34 million. Total revenues and other income in 2003 increased $2,404 million compared to 2002. The increase primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the Mining Sale, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. 37 Table of Contents Income from investees in 2002 included $39 million of insurance recoveries related to a 2001 fire at USS POSCO, other income included $38 million from a Federal excise tax refund, and gains on disposal of assets included $20 million from the sale of U. S. Steels shares of VSZ a.s. (VSZ). Profit based union payments Results for 2004 included costs of $241 million related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. Segment results for 2004 included $131 million of these costs and the balance was included in retiree benefit expenses. All of these costs are included in cost of revenues. Payment amounts per the agreement are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) to be contributed to a trust to assist National retirees with healthcare costs based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item are calculated in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $254 million in 2004, compared to $556 million in 2003 and a credit of $3 million in 2002. The costs in 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The credit in 2002 included $100 million of settlement losses. Excluding these one time charges, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. Excluding settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase of $212 million in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to a lower return on assets, a decline in the expected return on assets assumption and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $106 million in 2004, compared to $241 million in 2003 and $150 million in 2002. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. The increase in 2003 compared to 2002, excluding the curtailment charges, was primarily due to the addition of liabilities for National employees, changes in rate of retirement assumptions and a lower discount rate. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $18 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003 and 2002. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase in 2004 was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights and lower OPEB costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $673 million in 2003, compared to $418 million in 2002. The increase in 2003 was primarily due to higher pension and OPEB costs, increased compensation expense related 38 Table of Contents to stock appreciation rights, and higher expenses at USSE due mainly to unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange rate differences and increased business development expenses. These were partially offset by the favorable effect in 2003 of the absence of the impairment of retiree medical cost reimbursements receivable from Republic, which occurred in 2002. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for further details. Income (loss) from operations: (a) (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Flat rolled $ 1,185 $ (54 ) $ (84 ) USSE 394 203 110 Tubular 197 (25 ) (6 ) Real Estate 30 50 50 Straightline (70 ) (45 ) Total income (loss) from reportable segments 1,806 104 25 Other Businesses 28 (35 ) 33 Segment Income (Loss) from operations 1,834 69 58 Retiree benefit (expenses) credits (257 ) (107 ) 79 Other items not allocated to segments: Workforce reduction charges (including pension settlements) (17 ) (621 ) (100 ) Stock appreciation rights (23 ) (75 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Asset impairments (57 ) (14 ) Litigation items (25 ) 9 Costs related to Fairless shutdown (1 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire 39 Federal excise tax refund 38 Gain on VSZ share sale 20 Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,580 $ (730 ) $ 128 (a) See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices, which increased by $152 per ton; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. Flat rolled recorded a segment loss of $54 million in 2003, compared to a loss of $84 million in 2002. The decreased loss was primarily due to higher average realized prices and favorable effects resulting from ongoing cost improvement programs, the National acquisition and workforce reductions. These were partially offset by increased prices for raw materials, natural gas and utilities; higher employee benefit costs; increased costs for repair outages; and costs associated with the August 2003 power outage, which interrupted operations in Michigan and Ohio. 39 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income for 2004 was $394 million, compared to income of $203 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, which increased by $171 per ton, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. USSE segment income for the full year 2003 reflected an increase of $93 million from 2002. The improvement was primarily due to higher average realized prices as a result of favorable exchange rate effects and price increases, as well as higher shipment volumes. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, USSE shipments included those realized under toll conversion agreements with Sartid and, effective September 12, 2003, included all shipments from USSB (formerly Sartid). These improvements were partially offset by the unfavorable effect on costs of changes in foreign exchange rates; costs associated with the conversion and facility management agreements with Sartid, which were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition; and post acquisition operating losses at USSB including effects from a 38 day strike. Segment results for Tubular Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices, which increased by $233 per ton. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of tube rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which are transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. The segment loss for Tubular in 2003 reflected a decline of $19 million from 2002 primarily due to lower average realized prices for seamless products and higher natural gas prices, partially offset by increased shipment volumes for seamless products and income from the sale of Delta Tubular Processing. Segment results for Real Estate Real Estate segment income for 2004 was $30 million, down $20 million from 2003. The decrease primarily reflected lower mineral interest royalties as a result of the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Real Estate segment income for 2003 and 2002 was $50 million. Increased coal seam gas royalties were offset by lower real estate sales. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses recorded income of $28 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $35 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services. The loss for Other Businesses for 2003 reflected a decline of $68 million from income of $33 million in 2002. The decrease mainly reflected lower results from iron ore pellet operations due primarily to reduced shipment volumes, and lower results for coal operations and transportation services. Items not allocated to segments: Stock appreciation rights resulted in $23 million and $75 million of compensation expense accrued in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued over the last ten years and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. No stock appreciation rights were issued in 2004. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees, while the $100 million in 2002 reflected pension settlement losses related to retirements of personnel covered under the 40 Table of Contents non union qualified pension plan and the non qualified defined benefit pension plan. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels ongoing operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Asset impairments in 2002 were for charges related to reserves established against receivables exposure from financially distressed steel companies, primarily Republic. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of Real Estates remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain of Real Estates coal seam gas interests and from the Mining Sale. Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire represent U. S. Steels share of insurance recoveries in excess of facility repair costs for the cold reduction mill fire at USS POSCO, which occurred in May 2001. The final payment was received in December 2002. Federal excise tax refund represents the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales during the period 1993 through 1999. During 2002, U. S. Steel received cash and recognized pre tax income of $38 million, which is included in other income on the statement of operations. Of the $38 million received, $11 million represented interest. Net interest and other financial costs Net interest and other financial costs were $119 million in 2004, compared to $130 million in 2003 and $115 million in 2002. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. The decrease in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected lower interest on tax related liabilities, partially due to the more favorable 2004 adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes, more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and increased interest income. These favorable items were partially offset by a $33 million charge resulting from the early redemption of certain senior debt in April 2004. The $15 million increase from 2002 to 2003 was primarily due to interest on the new 9 3/4% senior notes, partially offset by more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and lower interest on tax related liabilities resulting from the favorable $17 million adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of both, and resulted in net gains of $32 million, $20 million and $16 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2004 was $351 million, compared to benefits in 2003 and 2002 of $454 million and $48 million, respectively. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefits in 2003 and 2002 included favorable effects relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million and $8 million, respectively. The change to a tax provision in 2004 as compared to tax benefits in the previous two years was primarily the result of pre tax income from domestic 41 Table of Contents operations recorded in 2004 compared to domestic pre tax losses in 2003 and 2002. The increase in the tax benefit in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to increased pre tax losses for domestic operations, including increased benefit costs. The Slovak Income Tax Act provides an income tax credit, which is available to USSK if certain conditions are met. In order to claim the tax credit in any year, 60 percent of USSKs sales must be export sales and USSK must reinvest the tax credits claimed in qualifying capital expenditures during the five years following the year in which the tax credit is claimed. The provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 100 percent of USSKs tax liability for years 2000 through 2004 and 50 percent of the current statutory rate of 19 percent for the years 2005 through 2009. Management believes that USSK fulfilled all of the necessary conditions for claiming the tax credit for the years for which it was claimed and anticipates meeting such requirements in 2005. As a result of claiming these tax credits and managements intent to reinvest earnings in foreign operations, virtually no income tax provision, except for the two $16 million tax payments discussed below, is recorded for USSK income. In connection with Slovakia joining the European Union (EU), the total tax credit granted to USSK for the period 2000 through 2009 was limited to $430 million, and USSK agreed to make tax payments of $16 million in 2004 and 2005, the first of which was paid in June 2004. Also, additional conditions for claiming the tax credit were established. These new conditions limit USSKs annual production of flat rolled product and its sales of all products into the 15 countries that were members of the EU prior to Slovakia and 9 other nations joining the EU in May 2004. Management believes the future impact of these changes will be minimal because Slovak tax laws have been modified and tax rates have been reduced since the acquisition of USSK; and the production and sales limits, which provide for annual increases through 2009, are not materially burdensome. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004, and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax liabilities of $314 million and $61 million, respectively. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2004, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the lack of historical information and the losses experienced in the months immediately following the acquisition of USSB. If USSB continues to generate income, the valuation allowance of $17 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2004 was $1,091 million, compared with a net loss of $463 million in 2003 and net income of $61 million in 2002. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Operations Flat rolled shipments were 15.6 million tons in 2004, 13.5 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from the facilities acquired from National, and 9.9 million tons in 2002. Tubular shipments were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 0.9 million tons in 2003 and 0.8 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 4 percent of U. S. Steels domestic shipments in 2004 and 2003, and 5 percent in 2002. USSE shipments were 5.0 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from USSB, and 4.0 million tons in 2002. 42 Table of Contents The acquisition of the assets of National on May 20, 2003, increased U. S. Steels stated annual raw steel production capability for domestic operations from 12.8 millions tons to 19.4 million tons. Raw steel production was 17.3 million tons in 2004, compared with 14.9 million tons in 2003, including production from the National assets following the acquisition, and 11.5 million tons in 2002. Raw steel production averaged 89 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 88 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the National capability on a prorata basis, and 90 percent of capability in 2002. All steel produced in U. S. Steels domestic facilities is continuous cast. Domestic capability utilization in 2004 and 2003 was reduced by scheduled blast furnace repair outages, which occurred in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2004 and in the second quarter of 2003. In 2002, domestic raw steel production was affected by poor market conditions during the first quarter, the acceleration into the fourth quarter of some blast furnace repair work that was originally scheduled to occur in 2003 and the high level of imports. The acquisition of Sartid on September 12, 2003, increased USSEs stated annual raw steel production capability from 5.0 million tons to 7.4 million tons. USSE raw steel production was 5.7 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including production from the Sartid assets following the acquisition, and 4.4 million tons in 2002. USSEs raw steel production averaged 77 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 84 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the Sartid capability on a prorata basis, and 88 percent in 2002. USSEs capability utilization in 2004 was reduced by the inclusion of USSB, as well as by operational difficulties with a blast furnace in Slovakia during the first quarter. USSEs capability utilization in 2003 was reduced by a blast furnace outage at USSK and the partial period inclusion of USSB as only about a third of its annual production capability was operational at the time of its acquisition in September 2003. USSBs capability utilization averaged 48 percent in 2004 and 20 percent in 2003 following the acquisition. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2004 increased $1,137 million from year end 2003 primarily due to increased cash balances and higher trade receivables. The increase in cash was mainly due to improved operations, $294 million of net proceeds from an equity offering and proceeds from the disposal of assets, partially offset by capital spending, the voluntary funding of benefit plans, the repayment of USSK debt and the redemption of certain senior notes. The increase in trade receivables primarily resulted from higher revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004, compared to last years fourth quarter, resulting mainly from higher steel prices. FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability is no longer required for this plan. Consequently, required entries were recorded that increased prepaid pensions by $2.48 billion, decreased the intangible pension asset by $440 million and resulted in a net credit to equity of $1.45 billion, which decreased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2004 decreased $325 million from year end 2003 and long term deferred income tax liabilities increased $592 million, primarily due to the elimination of federal and state deferred tax assets that were established in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2004 increased $404 million from year end 2003 mainly due to increases in accounts payable and payroll and benefits payable. The increase in accounts payable resulted mainly from higher raw materials costs and increased purchases of capital assets in late 2004 compared to the same period last year. The increase in payroll and benefits payable was primarily due to liabilities resulting from the profit based union payments that were previously discussed. Long term debt at December 31, 2004, was $1,363 million, $527 million lower than year end 2003. The decrease in debt was primarily due to the retirement of $281 million of USSK long term debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. 43 Table of Contents Employee benefits at December 31, 2004, decreased $257 million from year end 2003. Employee benefits at year end 2003 included the net pension liability related to an additional minimum liability adjustment for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan. In addition, OPEB liabilities decreased primarily because the sum of retiree medical benefit payments made in cash and a $30 million voluntary cash contribution to a trust exceeded the amount of retiree medical expense booked in 2004. Retiree medical expense was $60 million lower in 2004 as compared to 2003 due to recognition of the estimated effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and a cost cap negotiated with the USWA in 2003. For further information, see Estimated Future Benefit Payments in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Additional paid in capital increased by $354 million from the prior year end primarily reflecting U. S. Steels equity offering that was completed in March 2004. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities was $1,400 million in 2004, compared with $577 million in 2003. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items was partially offset by increased working capital requirements. Cash from operating activities in 2004 was reduced by $295 million of voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan, $186 million of OPEB payments, $50 million of payments to a multiemployer pension plan, $44 million of payments to pension plans not funded by trusts and $30 million of contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In 2003, OPEB payments were primarily funded by trusts. The $75 million in voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan in 2003 consisted of timber cutting rights valued at $59 million and $16 million of cash. Further contributions totaling $15 million were made to other smaller pension plans in 2003. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2006. Net cash provided from operating activities of $577 million in 2003 reflected an improvement of $298 million compared to 2002. The improvement resulted mainly from lower working capital requirements. Capital expenditures in 2004 were $579 million, compared with $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Major domestic projects in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills. Major projects at USSE in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $258 million, including $97 million for USSE. Major projects in 2002 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills and various projects at USSK, including continued work on the new tinning and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, completion of the scrap management and hot strip mill reheat furnace upgrade projects, commencement of work on a new dynamo line and installation of a vacuum degassing facility. U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2004, totaled $98 million compared with $23 million at December 31, 2003. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2004, was $257 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $135 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2004, leaving a balance of $22 million under this commitment. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements for further information. 44 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2005 are expected to be approximately $755 million, reflecting approximately $475 million for domestic operations and $280 million for European facilities. Domestic projects include the rebuild of the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, acquisition of mobile and mining equipment and coke oven thru wall repairs at Clairton Works and Gary Works. Projects in Slovakia include initial spending for a new automotive galvanizing line; and continuing work on air emissions reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include completion of the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace and steel production improvements. The preceding statement concerning expected 2005 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisitions in 2003 consisted of $839 million for the National assets, $29 million for USSB and a $37 million cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. The $38 million in 2002 was a cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. Disposal of assets in 2004 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of substantially all of the Real Estate segments remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Disposal of assets in 2003 consisted mainly of proceeds from the Mining Sale, cash collections on notes received in prior years asset disposals, the sale of the former National headquarters building and the sale of U. S. Steels interest in Delta Tubular Processing. Disposal of assets in 2002 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of U. S. Steels investment in stock of VSZ. Restricted cash Net deposits of $32 million in 2003 and $67 million in 2002 were mainly used to collateralize letters of credit to meet financial assurance requirements. Issuance of long term debt in 2003 resulted from the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May, net of deferred financing costs associated with the notes and the inventory facility. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2004 mainly reflected the retirement of long term USSK debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2003 and 2002 was mainly the USSK debt. Preferred stock issued in 2003 reflected net proceeds from the offering of 5 million shares of Series B Preferred. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004. The remaining amount mainly reflected proceeds from stock sales through the exercise of options. The 2003 amount primarily reflected sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. The 2002 amount primarily reflected $192 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in May 2002, as well as sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Dividends paid in 2004 were $39 million, compared with $35 million in 2003 and $19 million in 2002. Payments in all three periods reflected the quarterly dividend rate of five cents per common share. Dividends paid in 2004 also reflected a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share for the Series B Preferred. Dividends paid in 2003 also included an initial dividend of $1.206 per share for the Series B Preferred, which was paid on June 15, 2003, and a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share thereafter. The quarterly dividend rate per common share was increased to eight cents effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Debt and Convertible Preferred Shares Ratings On November 5, 2004, Moodys Investors Service upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating two steps, from B1 to Ba2. On November 12, 2004, Standard & Poors Ratings Services upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating from BB to BB and raised the preferred stock rating from B to B. 45 Table of Contents Liquidity In November 2001, U. S. Steel entered into a five year Receivables Purchase Agreement with financial institutions. U. S. Steel established a wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), which is a consolidated special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity that acquires, on a daily basis, eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries. USSR can sell an undivided interest in these receivables to certain commercial paper conduits. USSR pays the conduits a discount based on the conduits borrowing costs plus incremental fees, certain of which are determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, which increased fundings under the facility to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. Eligible receivables exclude certain obligors, amounts in excess of defined percentages for certain obligors, and amounts past due or due beyond a defined period. In addition, eligible receivables are calculated by deducting certain reserves, which are based on various determinants including concentration, dilution and loss percentages, as well as the credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had more than $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. While the term of the Receivables Purchase Agreement is five years, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed below and other debt obligations, any failure of USSR to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables, and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 23, 2005. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a four year revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by all domestic inventory and related assets (Inventory Facility), including receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The Inventory Facility contained a number of covenants that may have limited U. S. Steels ability to incur debt, make capital expenditures, sell assets, incur liens and make dividend and other restricted payments. The Inventory Facility also included a fixed charge coverage ratio test, which had to be met if availability was less than $100 million. In October 2004, the Inventory Facility was amended and restated to extend its maturity until October 2009, increase advance rates on semi finished and raw materials, reduce certain reserves, and modify pricing terms. In addition, many of the restrictive covenants apply now only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had in excess of $600 million of eligible inventory under the Inventory Facility, and utilized $6 million for letters of credit, reducing availability to $594 million. At December 31, 2004, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. In the third quarter of 2004, USSB entered into a new EUR 9.3 million (which approximated $12.7 million at December 31, 2004) committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility has a term of one year, and can be extended by mutual agreement of the parties for up to two additional one year periods. At December 31, 2004, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes), and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. 46 Table of Contents The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.2 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $118 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2004, an increase of $5 million during 2004, and expects to commit approximately $10 million to $20 million more during 2005. U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2004, in the amount of $42 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as obligations relating to Industrial Development and Environmental Improvement Bonds and Notes in the amount of $472 million and certain lease obligations totaling $190 million that were assumed by U. S. Steel from Marathon, may be declared immediately due and payable. 47 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2004: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents (a) $ 1,021 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSE credit facilities 69 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,184 (a) Excludes $16 million of cash, which resulted from the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership, because it is not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity at December 31, 2004 increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2004, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,373 $ 8 $ 33 $ 379 $ 953 Operating leases(b) 460 118 169 57 116 Capital commitments(c) 355 59 39 257 USSB Commitments 22 3 19 Environmental commitments(c) 123 21 102 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e ) 26 55 29 (e ) Other postretirement benefits (f ) 243 545 475 (f ) Total contractual obligations (g ) $ 475 $ 844 $ 959 (g ) (a) See Note 17 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2005 through 2009 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to 48 Table of Contents pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets which were managed by the Real Estate segment, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit plan in 2005. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $12 million to plans not funded by trusts in 2005. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2004, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 93 $ 65 $ 20 $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 21 4 17 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 28 28 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 25 8 1 14 2 Contingent liabilities: Marathon obligations(a)(d) 42 15 19 8 Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 1,627 1,001 383 152 91 Total commercial commitments $ 1,986 $ 1,093 $ 423 $ 174 $ 296 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of substrate and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In 2003, U. S. Steel entered into two off balance sheet arrangements for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. These operating lease arrangements are with special purpose trusts (SPTs). The SPTs financed the construction of the facilities and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficial owners of the SPTs. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of these entities. There are no guarantees of the obligations of these SPTs by U. S. Steel, and U. S. Steel would incur no significant penalties that would result in the reasonable assurance of continuation of the leases. U. S. Steels transactions with the SPTs are limited to the operating lease agreements, and the associated 49 Table of Contents lease expense is included in cost of revenues on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate these SPTs because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has unconditional supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 4 and Note 18 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 15 year agreement for the supply of electric power at Gary Works in Indiana, expiring in 2011. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of a 161 megawatt steam extraction turbine for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. Gary Works employees operate and maintain the facility and Gary Works supplies the steam for the turbine. This power is the first dispatched source of power to Gary Works. There are no take or pay obligations associated with this requirements contract and U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement results in an increase of approximately $60 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required 50 Table of Contents to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. 51 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Domestic: Capital $ 24 $ 8 $ 4 Compliance Operating & maintenance 241 206 171 Remediation(b) 18 38 36 Total Domestic $ 283 $ 252 $ 211 USSE: Capital $ 97 $ 22 $ 10 Compliance Operating & maintenance 8 10 8 Remediation(b) 3 3 1 Total USSE $ 108 $ 35 $ 19 Total U. S. Steel $ 391 $ 287 $ 230 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 21 percent of total capital expenditures in 2004, 10 percent in 2003 and 5 percent in 2002. Compliance expenditures represented 2 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2004, and 3 percent in 2003 and 2002. Remediation spending during 2002 to 2004 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2004, U. S. Steel accrued $34 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2004, was $123 million. Environmental spending in 2004 totaled $23 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2005. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $128 million in 2005, $69 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2005 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2006, including $90 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured electric cable; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. 53 Table of Contents Outlook for 2005 First quarter 2005 average realized prices for Flat rolled are expected to remain in line with or increase slightly from fourth quarter levels; however, results will be negatively affected by higher costs for raw materials, as well as slightly lower shipments. For full year 2005, Flat rolled shipments are expected to be about 15.4 million tons, reflecting the planned outage at the Gary No. 13 blast furnace. For USSE, first quarter average realized prices are expected to be moderately higher than in the fourth quarter of 2004, with shipments remaining about the same and costs for raw materials increasing significantly. USSE shipments for full year 2005 are projected to increase by about 15 percent to approximately 5.8 million net tons due mainly to higher operating levels at the Serbian facilities following the planned mid year startup of a second blast furnace. Shipments for Tubular in the first quarter of 2005 are expected to be at about the same level as in 2004s fourth quarter, while average realized prices are expected to continue to increase. Tubular announced price increases for certain products ranging from $50 to $250 per ton effective in January 2005. Full year shipments are expected to increase to 1.2 million tons. Costs will increase as a result of annual transfer value adjustments for semi finished steel, which comprehend raw material cost escalation, and higher costs for purchased rounds. First quarter 2005 results for Other Businesses will decline compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 due to normal seasonal effects at iron ore operations in Minnesota. In accordance with the previously announced settlement agreement with the City of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana regarding past years Gary Works personal property taxes, a Lake County appeals board is expected to consider a motion to resolve the appeals in accordance with the proposed settlement in early 2005. If the settlement is approved and becomes final as submitted, U. S. Steel would pay $44 million and would recognize a favorable income effect reflecting the reversal of liabilities accrued in excess of the settlement amount. Total costs in 2005 for domestic defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately the same as in 2004. For further information, see Critical Accounting Estimates Pensions and OPEB. This outlook contains forward looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices, tax settlements and employee benefit costs. Some factors, among others, that could affect market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both domestic operations and USSE include global product demand, prices and mix; global and company steel production levels; plant operating performance; the timing and completion of facility projects; natural gas prices and usage; raw materials availability and prices; changes in environmental, tax and other laws; employee strikes; power outages; legal proceedings regarding the proposed Gary Works tax settlement and U.S. and global economic performance and political developments. Domestic steel shipments and prices could be affected by import levels and actions taken by the U.S. Government and its agencies. Political factors in Europe that may affect USSEs results include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures. Future pension costs will be influenced by the market performance of plan assets, laws and regulations regarding discount rates and other calculations, and other economic factors. Future costs for active and retiree medical benefits will be influenced by medical inflation rates, future laws and regulations and retiree participation levels. Accounting Standards In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R) which addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that do not have sufficient equity investment to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. The Interpretation provides guidance related to identifying variable interest entities and determining whether such entities should be consolidated. It also provides guidance related to the initial and subsequent measurement of assets, liabilities and 54 Table of Contents noncontrolling interests in newly consolidated variable interest entities and requires disclosures for both the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and other beneficiaries of the entity. In accordance with FIN 46R, U. S. Steel consolidated the 1314B Partnership as of January 1, 2004. See further discussion in Note 18 to the Financial statements. In May 2004, FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106 2 (FSP FAS 106 2), Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Drug Act) was issued. FSP FAS 106 2 finalizes the accounting for the Drug Act and specifies that the effect of the Federal subsidy on a benefit plans accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) shall be accounted for as an actuarial experience gain. U. S. Steel accounted for the estimated effects of the Drug Act on its APBO as of December 31, 2003. Estimated savings of $450 million were included as an actuarial gain primarily due to changes in participation assumptions caused by the impact of the Drug Act in combination with the cost cap negotiated with the USWA in May 2003 and due to savings from reduced costs for mineworker participants because it is anticipated that the mineworkers union drug program will qualify for the Federal subsidy. Periodic postretirement benefit costs for 2004 were reduced by $60 million due to the estimated impact of these changes. There may also be significant clarifications of the Drug Act in future years that could significantly alter some or all of U. S. Steels assumptions. Furthermore, the participant withdrawal rates could occur at a different pace than has been assumed and the estimated savings could be greater or less than currently identified. No guidance has been issued regarding the effects of the Drug Act on U. S. Steels liabilities under the Coal Act of 1992, which is currently being accounted for under FAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 151 Inventory Costs (FAS 151) which amends ARB 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expenses, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges. In addition, FAS 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of FAS 151 are effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to inventory costs incurred on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect this Statement to have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, (FAS 123R) which is a revision of FAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, (FAS 123) and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. This Statement applies to U. S. Steel for all awards granted on or after July 1, 2005, and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after July 1, 2005, for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for pro forma disclosures. U. S. Steel expects the effect of adopting this Statement on 2005 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $15 million. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 152, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 66 and 67. This Statement amends FASB Statements No. 66 and 67 in association with the issuance of SOP 04 2, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, which applies to all real estate time sharing transactions. This Statement is effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to any real estate time sharing transactions occurring on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not have any real estate time sharing arrangements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. This Statement eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29 and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. This Statement specifies that a nonmonetary 55 Table of Contents exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of this Statement are effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this Statement prospectively to nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring on or after January 1, 2006. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, (FSP FAS 109 1) which states that the FASB staff believes that the qualified production activities deduction provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109 (FAS 109.) This FSP was effective upon issuance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which states that the FASB staff believes that the lack of clarification of certain provisions within the Act and the timing of the enactment necessitate a practical exemption to the FAS 109 requirement to reflect in the period of enactment the effect of a new tax law. Accordingly, an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying FAS 109. See Note 13 to the Financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas, heating oil and nonferrous metals and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. 56 Table of Contents Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pre tax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Decrease of(a) 2004 2003 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Zinc 2.9 7.2 1.2 3.1 Tin NA NA 0.0 0.1 Natural Gas 1.8 4.4 0.9 2.2 (a) The definition of a derivative instrument includes certain fixed price physical commodity contracts. Such instruments are included in the above table. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2004, may cause future pre tax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $4 million in 2004, compared to a gain of $1 million in 2003 and a loss of $6 million in 2002. These gains and losses were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For additional quantitative information relating to derivative commodity instruments, see Note 25 to the Financial Statements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2004 and 2003 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) As of December 31 2004 2003 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFair Value(c) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFairValue(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 8 $ $ 16 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f) $ 1,419 $ 50 $ 1,993 $ 90 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 23 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. (d) For additional information, see Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (e) Includes amounts due within one year. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 17 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels portfolio of long term debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $50 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases 57 Table of Contents in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $14.3 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $47.0 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2004 euro forward rates would result in a $6.1 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 58 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. The CAA specifically addressed the regulation and control of coke oven batteries. The National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants for coke oven batteries was finalized in October 1993, setting forth the MACT standard and, as an alternative, a Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) standard. Effective January 1998, U. S. Steel elected to comply with the LAER standards. U. S. Steel believes it will be able to meet the current LAER standards. The LAER standards will be further revised in 2010 and additional health risk based standards are expected to be adopted in 2020. The EPA finalized the Phase II Coke MACT for pushing, quenching and battery stacks on April 14, 2003, that requires compliance by April 14, 2006. U. S. Steel is in the process of developing an estimate of the cost to comply. 19 Table of Contents In September 1997, the EPA adopted revisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone and particulate matter, which are significantly more stringent than prior standards. The EPA is also developing regulations to address Regional Haze. The impact of these revised standards could be significant to U. S. Steel, but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated until the final regulations are promulgated and, more importantly, the states implement their State Implementation Plans covering their standards. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains the necessary discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts its operations to be in compliance with such permits. For additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 22,000 domestically and approximately 26,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented 20 Table of Contents by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in February 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Represented employees at USSB are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. All other filings are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the Securities and Exchange Commissions web site, the Internet address of which is www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on revenues and income (loss) of the reportable segments and Other Businesses and on revenues and other income and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 5 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 57 and F 58. 21 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Olympic Laser Processing(b) Van Buren, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Pipe Mills Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar and Delray Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 22 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Granite City, Illinois, which had been subject to a lease through 2012, was purchased in June 2004. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 215 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 23 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) Approximately 4 percent did not specify any damages sought at all, approximately 6 percent alleged damages of $1.0 million or less, another 0.6 percent alleged damages between $2.0 million and $10.0 million, and 0.4 percent alleged damages over $10 million. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 17,100 active claims outstanding. In 2002, U. S. Steel settled 1,135 claims for a total of approximately $700,000, and had a total of 2,662 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and 842 new claims filed. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that 24 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2004, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 20 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 8 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 10 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of sharing in any final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In 1988, U. S. Steel and two other PRPs (Bethlehem Steel Corporation and William Fiore) agreed to the issuance of an administrative order by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to undertake emergency removal work at the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. The cost of such removal, which has been completed, was approximately $4.2 million, of which U. S. Steel paid $3.4 million. EPA indicated that further remediation of this site would be required. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. After a Feasibility Study (FS) by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) and submission of a conceptual remedial action plan in 2001 by U. S. Steel, U. S. Steel submitted a revised conceptual remedial action plan on May 31, 2002. U. S. Steel and PADEP signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible 25 Table of Contents for remediation of this site. On March 18, 2003, PADEP notified U. S. Steel that the public comment period was concluded and the Consent Order and Agreement is final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $7.0 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from EPA requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/FS. The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project based on the groups selection from the range of alternatives presented in the FS is estimated to be $6.4 million. Of that total, U. S. Steels allocable share among the eight PRPs is approximately $1.0 million. In addition, U. S. Steels share of PRP group costs is expected to be less than $100,000 in 2005. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities The following is a discussion of other remediation activities at the major domestic U. S. Steel facilities: There are 39 additional sites related to U. S. Steel where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 4 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 17 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 5 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. Another 4 sites, including the Grand Calumet River remediation at Gary Works, the closure of hazardous waste sites at Gary Works, the claim for investigation, restoration and compensation of injuries to sediments in the east branch of the Grand Calumet River near Gary Works, and corrective action and groundwater investigation at Gary Works, have or are expected to have costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation in excess of $5 million. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. In 1999, U. S. Steel paid civil penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs. In addition, U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with NPDES requirements. The sediment remediation project is an approved final interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works. As of December 31, 2004, project costs have amounted to $51.5 million with another $100,000 presently projected to complete work under the approved sediment remediation plan. A Dredge Completion Report was submitted to EPA on March 29, 2004. EPA responded with written comments on the report. In response, U. S. Steel conducted additional sampling of river sediments in a portion of the dredge project area. Based on the results of the additional sediment sampling, U. S. Steel is considering additional dredging that would include additional substantial bank stabilization measures. Negotiations to have this additional work considered as a final measure are proceeding. The additional dredging and bank stabilization is anticipated to cost approximately $9.0 million. At the conclusion of the dredge project, the Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) will remain available and could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective 26 Table of Contents measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to the Administrative Order on Consent for corrective action. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $4.9 million. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River, costs of which are estimated to be $2.4 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property. The D2 disposal site and a nearby refuse area will be closed collectively. Total costs to close D2, D5, T2 and the refuse area are estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The public trustees completed a preassessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have determined to perform a Natural Resources Damages Assessment. U. S. Steel was identified as a PRP along with 15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. U. S. Steel and eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The trustees notified the public of their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. In 2000, the trustees concluded their assessment of sediment injuries, which included a technical review of environmental conditions. The PRP joint defense group has proposed terms for the settlement of this claim, which have been endorsed by representatives of the trustees and EPA to be included in a consent decree that U. S. Steel expects will resolve this claim. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs, and obtained an 8 acre parcel of land that has been transferred to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for addition to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Park owned by the National Park Service. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement has been executed by the parties and lodged with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana on August 20, 2004. Concurrent with this lodging of the Consent Decree, the United States of America filed its complaint titled United States of America v. Atlantic Richfield, et. al. asserting liability for its claim against the settling parties. In December 2004, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) filed a motion with the court that requested approval and entry of the consent decree. On October 23, 1998, a final Administrative Order on Consent was issued by EPA addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. The Current Conditions Report, U. S. Steels first deliverable, was submitted to EPA in January 1997 and was approved by EPA in 1998. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans and a self implementing interim measure have been submitted to EPA for approval. Two other self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $14.9 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations and the submitted work plans is estimated to be $6.4 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to present. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $424,000. 27 Table of Contents Fairfield Works In December 1995, U. S. Steel reached an agreement in principle with EPA and DOJ with respect to alleged RCRA violations at Fairfield Works. A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and DOJ and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved for the site on September 16, 2002. Field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel is currently preparing a Phase I RFI Report for submission to ADEM in early 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $414,000. In addition, U. S. Steel is developing a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. Lower Opossum Creek is approximately 4.5 miles of the Opossum Creek Area of Concern. U. S. Steel is investigating Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the investigation costs. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of this investigation and costs to implement sediment remediation to be $823,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $478,000. Lorain Pipe Mills In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe), was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. USS/Kobe and EPA commenced settlement negotiations in July 1999. In August 1999, the steelmaking and bar producing operations of USS/Kobe were combined with companies controlled by Blackstone Capital Partners II to form Republic. The tubular operations of USS/Kobe were transferred to a newly formed entity, Lorain Tubular Company, LLC (Lorain Tubular), which operated as a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe until December 31, 1999, when U. S. Steel purchased all of Kobes interest in Lorain Tubular. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Pipe Mills. U. S. Steel and EPA have agreed upon terms of settlement that include a cash penalty for U. S. Steel of $100,000 plus a supplemental environmental project to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Negotiations on the final terms and conditions of the consent decree are ongoing. Most of the matters raised by EPA relate to Republics facilities; however, air discharges from U. S. Steels No. 3 seamless pipe mill were also cited and U. S. Steel will be responsible for conducting a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. U. S. Steel will be responsible only for matters relating to its facilities. Issues related to Republic have been resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works U. S. Steel has agreed to the terms of a consent decree that will include the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the BOP; a civil penalty of $950,000; and a supplemental environmental project at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Great Lakes Works continues to identify and evaluate potential operating practices and facility improvements to reduce emissions. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $12.9 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through December 31, 2004. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $363,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. 28 Table of Contents Geneva Works In November 1989, the Utah Department of Environmental Quality issued a permit to U. S. Steel for the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments including facility wide corrective action at U. S. Steels former Geneva Works. The permit was administratively extended until May 14, 2004, when it was reissued to U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company (Geneva), the site owner. The permit allocates responsibility for corrective action between U. S. Steel and Geneva. U. S. Steel has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations on some areas of the facility for which U. S. Steel has responsibility under the permit. The remaining costs to prepare these work plans, implement field investigations and continue post closure care on the three hazardous waste impoundments are estimated to be approximately $5.6 million. On June 2, 2004, Geneva filed a motion in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Utah to approve the amendment and assumption of the 1987 Asset Sales Agreement, the acceptance of the permit and the retention of a remediation contractor. On July 7, 2004, the motion was heard and granted providing for Genevas continuing involvement and funding of the remediation required by the permit. Other In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The site was owned by Armour Agriculture Chemical Company (now named Viad) from 1912 to 1968. U. S. Steel owned the site from 1968 to 1986 and sold the site to LaRoche Industries in 1986. The agreed order allocated responsibility for assessment and cleanup costs as follows: Viad 48 percent, U. S. Steel 26 percent and LaRoche 26 percent; and LaRoche was appointed to be the lead party responsible for conducting the cleanup. In March 2001, U. S. Steel was notified that LaRoche had filed for protection under bankruptcy law. On August 23, 2001, the allocation of responsibility for this site assessment and cleanup and the cost allocation was approved by the bankruptcy court in the LaRoche bankruptcy. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $801,000, based on the allocation factor of 26 percent. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas. The site is a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. U. S. Steel agreed in a Consent Order before KDHE, signed April 7, 2003, with KDHE and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Under that agreement, U. S. Steel and SSB each bear a 50 percent share of the costs of those responsibilities. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.2 million. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2005, are as follows: John J. Connelly 58 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 56 Executive Vice PresidentOperations Gretchen R. Haggerty 49 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer Christopher J. Navetta 56 President, U. S. Steel Kosice, s.r.o. Dan D. Sandman 56 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 55 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 57 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 50 President and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 55. As of January 31, 2005, there were 31,747 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2004, no unregistered shares were issued. 30 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2004(a) 2003 2002 2001(b) 2000(b) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues and other income(c)(d) $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 $ 6,375 $ 6,132 Income (loss) from operations(e) 1,580 (730 ) 128 (405 ) 104 Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) 1,077 (406 ) 61 (218 ) (21 ) Net income (loss)(e) $ 1,091 $ (463 ) $ 61 $ (218 ) $ (21 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(f) basic $ 9.47 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.37 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Net income (loss)(f) basic 9.60 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.48 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Dividends paid(g) .20 .20 .20 .55 1.00 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 10,956 $ 7,837 $ 7,977 $ 8,337 $ 8,711 Capitalization: Notes payable $ $ $ $ $ 70 Long term debt including amount due within one year(h) 1,371 1,933 1,434 1,466 2,375 Preferred stock of subsidiary(i) 66 Trust Preferred Securities(i) 183 Stockholders equity 3,970 1,093 2,027 2,506 1,919 Total capitalization $ 5,341 $ 3,026 $ 3,461 $ 3,972 $ 4,613 (a) Includes minor revisions from the unaudited results reported on Form 8 K filed on January 25, 2005. Unaudited results for the year ended December 31, 2004, were income from operations of $1,584 million and net income of $1,085 million, or $8.44 per diluted share. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon). On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2000, and the income statement for each of the two years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, represent a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. Stockholders equity as of December 31, 2000, represents the combined net assets of the businesses comprising U. S. Steel (Marathons net investment in U. S. Steel). (c) Consists of revenues, dividend and investee income (loss), net gains on disposal of assets and other income (loss). (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in revenues and other income from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic, which was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. These were partially offset by reduced domestic tubular and plate shipment volumes. The increase in revenues and other income from 2000 to 2001 was mainly due to the inclusion of USSK revenues for the full year, the inclusion of Transtar revenues following the reorganization and higher income from investees relating to the gain on the Transtar reorganization; partially offset by lower domestic sheet, tubular and plate shipment volumes, lower average realized prices for domestic sheet products, and the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. The decrease from 2000 to 2001 mainly resulted from lower prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; higher employee benefit costs; lower results from coal, iron ore pellet and tin operations; and increased asset impairments; partially offset by a full year of income from USSK and the gain on the Transtar reorganization. (f) See Note 11 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (g) For years 2000 and 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (h) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease in long term debt from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to transactions related to the separation from Marathon. (i) At the separation from Marathon, these securities were either redeemed for cash by Marathon, or retained by Marathon and redeemed or repaid in January 2002. 31 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel is the second largest integrated steel producer in North America and has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume; selling prices; production costs; and value added product mix, since these products typically provide a higher profit margin than more commodity type steel products. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on its ability to implement the strategy described below. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, and U. S. Steel in particular, include the sustainability of higher steel prices; the steep increase in the cost of purchased raw materials; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has led to much of the recent volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States increased significantly during 2004 and could continue to increase depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, and consumption in the United States versus other regions. Strategy U. S. Steels business strategy is to continue to grow its investment in high end finishing assets, expand its global business platform, reduce its costs and become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets where management believes that U. S. Steels leadership position, production and processing capabilities and technical service provide a competitive advantage. These products include advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets for the construction industry, improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods. U. S. Steel continues to enhance its value added businesses through the upgrading and modernization of its key production facilities. U. S. Steel continues to be interested in participating in further consolidation of the North American steel industry if it would be beneficial to customers, shareholders, creditors and employees. U. S. Steel continues to explore additional opportunities for steel and raw materials investments in Europe. U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading European steel producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing 32 Table of Contents European markets, to grow its customer base in Europe by providing reliable delivery of high quality steel and to invest in value added facilities, including a planned automotive hot dip galvanizing line, to improve USSEs product mix. Expansion opportunities in Europe and North America would be attractive to U. S. Steel. South America, China and India are also possible areas of interest. In 2004, U. S. Steel concentrated on successfully integrating the businesses acquired in 2003 (discussed below), improving its balance sheet, increasing liquidity and continuing to strengthen its core steel businesses in order to be better positioned for further expansion and continued improvements to its existing facilities. An equity offering of 8 million common shares was completed in March 2004 for net proceeds of $294 million, which were primarily used to redeem certain senior notes. In April 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of its 10 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of its 9 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. In addition, USSK retired $281 million of long term debt in 2004. In total these debt repayments reduced annualized interest expense by approximately $50 million. Also during 2004, U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan and $30 million to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In October 2004, U. S. Steels $600 million revolving credit facility was amended and restated to: 1) extend the maturity to October 2009, 2) increase the borrowing base, 3) reduce the pricing for both borrowings and undrawn commitments, and 4) limit the application of many of the restrictive covenants. In February 2004, U. S. Steel continued to divest its non core assets when it sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. In 2003, U. S. Steel engaged in several significant transactions aimed at strengthening its core steel businesses. On May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy substantially all of the integrated steelmaking assets of National Steel Corporation (National). See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. The facilities that were acquired included two integrated steel plants, Granite City Works in Granite City, Illinois, and Great Lakes Works in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan; the Midwest Plant in Portage, Indiana; ProCoil Company LLC (ProCoil) in Canton, Michigan; a 50 percent equity interest in Double G Coatings Company, L.P. (Double G) near Jackson, Mississippi; the iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota (Keetac); and the Delray Connecting Railroad Company (Delray) in Michigan. This acquisition increased annual domestic raw steel production capability by 6.6 million net tons (tons) to 19.4 million tons. U. S. Steel and the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) reached a five year labor agreement that was effective upon the completion of the National acquisition and which covers both U. S. Steel and former National employees. This agreement allowed for a workforce restructuring aimed at achieving a 20 percent productivity improvement, expanded profit based variable compensation, provided cost sharing mechanisms for employee and retiree health care expenses, and provided a joint mechanism to consider further acquisitions of steel and steel related assets in North America. On September 12, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy Sartid a.d. (In Bankruptcy), an integrated steel company located in the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Sartid). U. S. Steel is operating these facilities as USSB. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. This acquisition increased annual European raw steel production capability by 2.4 million tons to 7.4 million tons. On June 30, 2003, U. S. Steel completed the sale of its coal mines and related assets (Mining Sale). As a result, U. S. Steel no longer mines any coal. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale. In a non monetary transaction in November 2003, U. S. Steels plate mill at Gary Works was exchanged for a pickling line located in East Chicago, Indiana. This was U. S. Steels only plate mill; however, U. S. Steel still produces plate in coil on its hot strip mills at Gary Works and at its European operations. 33 Table of Contents In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. Straightline Source (Straightline) was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2005. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total $230 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets for 2005 would have decreased or increased, respectively, the expected net periodic pension cost by $34 million. U. S. Steel determines the discount rate applied to pension and OPEB obligations at each year end or required interim period based on a number of external barometers used to measure the status of high quality bond rates consistent with the expected payout period of the obligations. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 6.0 percent to 5.75 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2005 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. Total OPEB costs in 2005 are expected to be approximately $109 million. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, a 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased pension and OPEB liabilities by $340 million and $110 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased pension and OPEB liabilities by $370 million and $120 million, respectively. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on 34 Table of Contents the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most salaried benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2005. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the escalation trend would have increased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $8 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the escalation trend would have decreased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $7 million in 2005. Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. The amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2004, was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of these net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004 and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2004, total accruals for environmental remediation were $123 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. 35 Table of Contents Segments During 2004, U. S. Steel had four reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE), Tubular Products (Tubular) and Real Estate. As of January 1, 2004, the residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. The application of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, resulted in U. S. Steel consolidating the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. (1314B Partnership) effective January 1, 2004. The results of the 1314B Partnership, which are included in the Flat rolled segment, were previously accounted for under the equity method. For further information, see Notes 4 and 18 to the Financial Statements. The National acquisition changed the composition of the Flat rolled segment and Other Businesses as described below, but did not result in a change in U. S. Steels reportable segments. Effective with the Mining Sale, Other Businesses are no longer involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. Effective with the acquisition of Sartid, the USSK segment was renamed USSE and includes the operating results of both USSK and USSB. Effective with the third quarter of 2003, the composition of the Flat rolled segment was changed to include the results of the coke operations at Clairton Works and Gary Works, which were previously reported in Other Businesses. This change reflected U. S. Steels management consolidations. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2003, benefit expenses for current retirees are separately identified and are no longer allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. These expenses include pensions, health care, life insurance and any profit based expenses for the benefit of retirees. Benefit expenses for active employees continue to be allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. Furthermore, U. S. Steel changed its methodology for allocating certain corporate costs. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for details. These changes were made so that operating results of U. S. Steels reportable segments will better reflect their current contribution and so that U. S. Steels segment results will be more comparable to those of its primary competitors who do not have significant fixed retiree obligations. Comparative results have been conformed to the current year presentation. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the service centers, conversion, transportation (including automotive), containers, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G, which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with Sartid. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service centers, appliance, containers, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed and developed for sale or lease. In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. In February 2004, U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. Prior to the disposition of these assets, results they generated were reported in the Real Estate segment. The Straightline segment included the operating results of U. S. Steels technology enabled distribution business that was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. 36 Table of Contents All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services, and engineering and consulting services. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of Keetac and Delray, which were acquired from National. Prior to the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer value for rounds supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and the transfer value of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs. Income The principal drivers of U. S. Steels financial results are price, volume, cost and product mix. To the extent that these factors are affected by industry conditions and the overall economic climate, revenues and income will reflect such conditions. Revenues and other income (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003(a) 2002 Revenues by product: Flat rolled steel products $ 11,549 $ 7,372 $ 5,115 Tubular 1,042 626 555 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore)(b) 705 419 513 Other(c) 673 911 766 Income (loss) from investees 57 (11 ) 33 Net gains on disposal of assets 57 85 29 Other income 25 56 43 Total revenues and other income $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Revenue from the sale of coal ceased with the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003. Includes revenue from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. Included revenue from steel mill products distribution prior to January 1, 2004, when the residual results of Straightline were included in Flat rolled; and revenue from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Total revenues and other income in 2004 increased $4,650 million compared to 2003. The increases primarily reflected higher average realized prices for Flat rolled, Tubular and European operations; higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet, tin and tubular products; higher shipment volumes for USSE; and higher revenues on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill and the absence of revenues from coal sales in 2004 due to the Mining Sale. Revenues for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues and other income in 2004 included a $43 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $36 million and other income of $7 million. Revenues and other income in 2003 included a net gain on disposal of assets of $55 million resulting from the timber contribution to the pension plan and a $47 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $13 million and other income of $34 million. Total revenues and other income in 2003 increased $2,404 million compared to 2002. The increase primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the Mining Sale, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. 37 Table of Contents Income from investees in 2002 included $39 million of insurance recoveries related to a 2001 fire at USS POSCO, other income included $38 million from a Federal excise tax refund, and gains on disposal of assets included $20 million from the sale of U. S. Steels shares of VSZ a.s. (VSZ). Profit based union payments Results for 2004 included costs of $241 million related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. Segment results for 2004 included $131 million of these costs and the balance was included in retiree benefit expenses. All of these costs are included in cost of revenues. Payment amounts per the agreement are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) to be contributed to a trust to assist National retirees with healthcare costs based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item are calculated in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $254 million in 2004, compared to $556 million in 2003 and a credit of $3 million in 2002. The costs in 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The credit in 2002 included $100 million of settlement losses. Excluding these one time charges, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. Excluding settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase of $212 million in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to a lower return on assets, a decline in the expected return on assets assumption and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $106 million in 2004, compared to $241 million in 2003 and $150 million in 2002. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. The increase in 2003 compared to 2002, excluding the curtailment charges, was primarily due to the addition of liabilities for National employees, changes in rate of retirement assumptions and a lower discount rate. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $18 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003 and 2002. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase in 2004 was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights and lower OPEB costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $673 million in 2003, compared to $418 million in 2002. The increase in 2003 was primarily due to higher pension and OPEB costs, increased compensation expense related 38 Table of Contents to stock appreciation rights, and higher expenses at USSE due mainly to unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange rate differences and increased business development expenses. These were partially offset by the favorable effect in 2003 of the absence of the impairment of retiree medical cost reimbursements receivable from Republic, which occurred in 2002. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for further details. Income (loss) from operations: (a) (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Flat rolled $ 1,185 $ (54 ) $ (84 ) USSE 394 203 110 Tubular 197 (25 ) (6 ) Real Estate 30 50 50 Straightline (70 ) (45 ) Total income (loss) from reportable segments 1,806 104 25 Other Businesses 28 (35 ) 33 Segment Income (Loss) from operations 1,834 69 58 Retiree benefit (expenses) credits (257 ) (107 ) 79 Other items not allocated to segments: Workforce reduction charges (including pension settlements) (17 ) (621 ) (100 ) Stock appreciation rights (23 ) (75 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Asset impairments (57 ) (14 ) Litigation items (25 ) 9 Costs related to Fairless shutdown (1 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire 39 Federal excise tax refund 38 Gain on VSZ share sale 20 Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,580 $ (730 ) $ 128 (a) See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices, which increased by $152 per ton; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. Flat rolled recorded a segment loss of $54 million in 2003, compared to a loss of $84 million in 2002. The decreased loss was primarily due to higher average realized prices and favorable effects resulting from ongoing cost improvement programs, the National acquisition and workforce reductions. These were partially offset by increased prices for raw materials, natural gas and utilities; higher employee benefit costs; increased costs for repair outages; and costs associated with the August 2003 power outage, which interrupted operations in Michigan and Ohio. 39 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income for 2004 was $394 million, compared to income of $203 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, which increased by $171 per ton, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. USSE segment income for the full year 2003 reflected an increase of $93 million from 2002. The improvement was primarily due to higher average realized prices as a result of favorable exchange rate effects and price increases, as well as higher shipment volumes. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, USSE shipments included those realized under toll conversion agreements with Sartid and, effective September 12, 2003, included all shipments from USSB (formerly Sartid). These improvements were partially offset by the unfavorable effect on costs of changes in foreign exchange rates; costs associated with the conversion and facility management agreements with Sartid, which were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition; and post acquisition operating losses at USSB including effects from a 38 day strike. Segment results for Tubular Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices, which increased by $233 per ton. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of tube rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which are transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. The segment loss for Tubular in 2003 reflected a decline of $19 million from 2002 primarily due to lower average realized prices for seamless products and higher natural gas prices, partially offset by increased shipment volumes for seamless products and income from the sale of Delta Tubular Processing. Segment results for Real Estate Real Estate segment income for 2004 was $30 million, down $20 million from 2003. The decrease primarily reflected lower mineral interest royalties as a result of the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Real Estate segment income for 2003 and 2002 was $50 million. Increased coal seam gas royalties were offset by lower real estate sales. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses recorded income of $28 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $35 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services. The loss for Other Businesses for 2003 reflected a decline of $68 million from income of $33 million in 2002. The decrease mainly reflected lower results from iron ore pellet operations due primarily to reduced shipment volumes, and lower results for coal operations and transportation services. Items not allocated to segments: Stock appreciation rights resulted in $23 million and $75 million of compensation expense accrued in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued over the last ten years and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. No stock appreciation rights were issued in 2004. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees, while the $100 million in 2002 reflected pension settlement losses related to retirements of personnel covered under the 40 Table of Contents non union qualified pension plan and the non qualified defined benefit pension plan. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels ongoing operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Asset impairments in 2002 were for charges related to reserves established against receivables exposure from financially distressed steel companies, primarily Republic. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of Real Estates remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain of Real Estates coal seam gas interests and from the Mining Sale. Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire represent U. S. Steels share of insurance recoveries in excess of facility repair costs for the cold reduction mill fire at USS POSCO, which occurred in May 2001. The final payment was received in December 2002. Federal excise tax refund represents the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales during the period 1993 through 1999. During 2002, U. S. Steel received cash and recognized pre tax income of $38 million, which is included in other income on the statement of operations. Of the $38 million received, $11 million represented interest. Net interest and other financial costs Net interest and other financial costs were $119 million in 2004, compared to $130 million in 2003 and $115 million in 2002. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. The decrease in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected lower interest on tax related liabilities, partially due to the more favorable 2004 adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes, more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and increased interest income. These favorable items were partially offset by a $33 million charge resulting from the early redemption of certain senior debt in April 2004. The $15 million increase from 2002 to 2003 was primarily due to interest on the new 9 3/4% senior notes, partially offset by more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and lower interest on tax related liabilities resulting from the favorable $17 million adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of both, and resulted in net gains of $32 million, $20 million and $16 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2004 was $351 million, compared to benefits in 2003 and 2002 of $454 million and $48 million, respectively. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefits in 2003 and 2002 included favorable effects relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million and $8 million, respectively. The change to a tax provision in 2004 as compared to tax benefits in the previous two years was primarily the result of pre tax income from domestic 41 Table of Contents operations recorded in 2004 compared to domestic pre tax losses in 2003 and 2002. The increase in the tax benefit in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to increased pre tax losses for domestic operations, including increased benefit costs. The Slovak Income Tax Act provides an income tax credit, which is available to USSK if certain conditions are met. In order to claim the tax credit in any year, 60 percent of USSKs sales must be export sales and USSK must reinvest the tax credits claimed in qualifying capital expenditures during the five years following the year in which the tax credit is claimed. The provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 100 percent of USSKs tax liability for years 2000 through 2004 and 50 percent of the current statutory rate of 19 percent for the years 2005 through 2009. Management believes that USSK fulfilled all of the necessary conditions for claiming the tax credit for the years for which it was claimed and anticipates meeting such requirements in 2005. As a result of claiming these tax credits and managements intent to reinvest earnings in foreign operations, virtually no income tax provision, except for the two $16 million tax payments discussed below, is recorded for USSK income. In connection with Slovakia joining the European Union (EU), the total tax credit granted to USSK for the period 2000 through 2009 was limited to $430 million, and USSK agreed to make tax payments of $16 million in 2004 and 2005, the first of which was paid in June 2004. Also, additional conditions for claiming the tax credit were established. These new conditions limit USSKs annual production of flat rolled product and its sales of all products into the 15 countries that were members of the EU prior to Slovakia and 9 other nations joining the EU in May 2004. Management believes the future impact of these changes will be minimal because Slovak tax laws have been modified and tax rates have been reduced since the acquisition of USSK; and the production and sales limits, which provide for annual increases through 2009, are not materially burdensome. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004, and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax liabilities of $314 million and $61 million, respectively. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2004, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the lack of historical information and the losses experienced in the months immediately following the acquisition of USSB. If USSB continues to generate income, the valuation allowance of $17 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2004 was $1,091 million, compared with a net loss of $463 million in 2003 and net income of $61 million in 2002. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Operations Flat rolled shipments were 15.6 million tons in 2004, 13.5 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from the facilities acquired from National, and 9.9 million tons in 2002. Tubular shipments were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 0.9 million tons in 2003 and 0.8 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 4 percent of U. S. Steels domestic shipments in 2004 and 2003, and 5 percent in 2002. USSE shipments were 5.0 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from USSB, and 4.0 million tons in 2002. 42 Table of Contents The acquisition of the assets of National on May 20, 2003, increased U. S. Steels stated annual raw steel production capability for domestic operations from 12.8 millions tons to 19.4 million tons. Raw steel production was 17.3 million tons in 2004, compared with 14.9 million tons in 2003, including production from the National assets following the acquisition, and 11.5 million tons in 2002. Raw steel production averaged 89 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 88 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the National capability on a prorata basis, and 90 percent of capability in 2002. All steel produced in U. S. Steels domestic facilities is continuous cast. Domestic capability utilization in 2004 and 2003 was reduced by scheduled blast furnace repair outages, which occurred in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2004 and in the second quarter of 2003. In 2002, domestic raw steel production was affected by poor market conditions during the first quarter, the acceleration into the fourth quarter of some blast furnace repair work that was originally scheduled to occur in 2003 and the high level of imports. The acquisition of Sartid on September 12, 2003, increased USSEs stated annual raw steel production capability from 5.0 million tons to 7.4 million tons. USSE raw steel production was 5.7 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including production from the Sartid assets following the acquisition, and 4.4 million tons in 2002. USSEs raw steel production averaged 77 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 84 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the Sartid capability on a prorata basis, and 88 percent in 2002. USSEs capability utilization in 2004 was reduced by the inclusion of USSB, as well as by operational difficulties with a blast furnace in Slovakia during the first quarter. USSEs capability utilization in 2003 was reduced by a blast furnace outage at USSK and the partial period inclusion of USSB as only about a third of its annual production capability was operational at the time of its acquisition in September 2003. USSBs capability utilization averaged 48 percent in 2004 and 20 percent in 2003 following the acquisition. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2004 increased $1,137 million from year end 2003 primarily due to increased cash balances and higher trade receivables. The increase in cash was mainly due to improved operations, $294 million of net proceeds from an equity offering and proceeds from the disposal of assets, partially offset by capital spending, the voluntary funding of benefit plans, the repayment of USSK debt and the redemption of certain senior notes. The increase in trade receivables primarily resulted from higher revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004, compared to last years fourth quarter, resulting mainly from higher steel prices. FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability is no longer required for this plan. Consequently, required entries were recorded that increased prepaid pensions by $2.48 billion, decreased the intangible pension asset by $440 million and resulted in a net credit to equity of $1.45 billion, which decreased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2004 decreased $325 million from year end 2003 and long term deferred income tax liabilities increased $592 million, primarily due to the elimination of federal and state deferred tax assets that were established in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2004 increased $404 million from year end 2003 mainly due to increases in accounts payable and payroll and benefits payable. The increase in accounts payable resulted mainly from higher raw materials costs and increased purchases of capital assets in late 2004 compared to the same period last year. The increase in payroll and benefits payable was primarily due to liabilities resulting from the profit based union payments that were previously discussed. Long term debt at December 31, 2004, was $1,363 million, $527 million lower than year end 2003. The decrease in debt was primarily due to the retirement of $281 million of USSK long term debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. 43 Table of Contents Employee benefits at December 31, 2004, decreased $257 million from year end 2003. Employee benefits at year end 2003 included the net pension liability related to an additional minimum liability adjustment for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan. In addition, OPEB liabilities decreased primarily because the sum of retiree medical benefit payments made in cash and a $30 million voluntary cash contribution to a trust exceeded the amount of retiree medical expense booked in 2004. Retiree medical expense was $60 million lower in 2004 as compared to 2003 due to recognition of the estimated effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and a cost cap negotiated with the USWA in 2003. For further information, see Estimated Future Benefit Payments in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Additional paid in capital increased by $354 million from the prior year end primarily reflecting U. S. Steels equity offering that was completed in March 2004. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities was $1,400 million in 2004, compared with $577 million in 2003. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items was partially offset by increased working capital requirements. Cash from operating activities in 2004 was reduced by $295 million of voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan, $186 million of OPEB payments, $50 million of payments to a multiemployer pension plan, $44 million of payments to pension plans not funded by trusts and $30 million of contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In 2003, OPEB payments were primarily funded by trusts. The $75 million in voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan in 2003 consisted of timber cutting rights valued at $59 million and $16 million of cash. Further contributions totaling $15 million were made to other smaller pension plans in 2003. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2006. Net cash provided from operating activities of $577 million in 2003 reflected an improvement of $298 million compared to 2002. The improvement resulted mainly from lower working capital requirements. Capital expenditures in 2004 were $579 million, compared with $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Major domestic projects in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills. Major projects at USSE in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $258 million, including $97 million for USSE. Major projects in 2002 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills and various projects at USSK, including continued work on the new tinning and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, completion of the scrap management and hot strip mill reheat furnace upgrade projects, commencement of work on a new dynamo line and installation of a vacuum degassing facility. U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2004, totaled $98 million compared with $23 million at December 31, 2003. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2004, was $257 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $135 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2004, leaving a balance of $22 million under this commitment. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements for further information. 44 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2005 are expected to be approximately $755 million, reflecting approximately $475 million for domestic operations and $280 million for European facilities. Domestic projects include the rebuild of the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, acquisition of mobile and mining equipment and coke oven thru wall repairs at Clairton Works and Gary Works. Projects in Slovakia include initial spending for a new automotive galvanizing line; and continuing work on air emissions reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include completion of the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace and steel production improvements. The preceding statement concerning expected 2005 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisitions in 2003 consisted of $839 million for the National assets, $29 million for USSB and a $37 million cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. The $38 million in 2002 was a cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. Disposal of assets in 2004 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of substantially all of the Real Estate segments remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Disposal of assets in 2003 consisted mainly of proceeds from the Mining Sale, cash collections on notes received in prior years asset disposals, the sale of the former National headquarters building and the sale of U. S. Steels interest in Delta Tubular Processing. Disposal of assets in 2002 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of U. S. Steels investment in stock of VSZ. Restricted cash Net deposits of $32 million in 2003 and $67 million in 2002 were mainly used to collateralize letters of credit to meet financial assurance requirements. Issuance of long term debt in 2003 resulted from the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May, net of deferred financing costs associated with the notes and the inventory facility. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2004 mainly reflected the retirement of long term USSK debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2003 and 2002 was mainly the USSK debt. Preferred stock issued in 2003 reflected net proceeds from the offering of 5 million shares of Series B Preferred. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004. The remaining amount mainly reflected proceeds from stock sales through the exercise of options. The 2003 amount primarily reflected sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. The 2002 amount primarily reflected $192 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in May 2002, as well as sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Dividends paid in 2004 were $39 million, compared with $35 million in 2003 and $19 million in 2002. Payments in all three periods reflected the quarterly dividend rate of five cents per common share. Dividends paid in 2004 also reflected a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share for the Series B Preferred. Dividends paid in 2003 also included an initial dividend of $1.206 per share for the Series B Preferred, which was paid on June 15, 2003, and a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share thereafter. The quarterly dividend rate per common share was increased to eight cents effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Debt and Convertible Preferred Shares Ratings On November 5, 2004, Moodys Investors Service upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating two steps, from B1 to Ba2. On November 12, 2004, Standard & Poors Ratings Services upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating from BB to BB and raised the preferred stock rating from B to B. 45 Table of Contents Liquidity In November 2001, U. S. Steel entered into a five year Receivables Purchase Agreement with financial institutions. U. S. Steel established a wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), which is a consolidated special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity that acquires, on a daily basis, eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries. USSR can sell an undivided interest in these receivables to certain commercial paper conduits. USSR pays the conduits a discount based on the conduits borrowing costs plus incremental fees, certain of which are determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, which increased fundings under the facility to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. Eligible receivables exclude certain obligors, amounts in excess of defined percentages for certain obligors, and amounts past due or due beyond a defined period. In addition, eligible receivables are calculated by deducting certain reserves, which are based on various determinants including concentration, dilution and loss percentages, as well as the credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had more than $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. While the term of the Receivables Purchase Agreement is five years, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed below and other debt obligations, any failure of USSR to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables, and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 23, 2005. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a four year revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by all domestic inventory and related assets (Inventory Facility), including receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The Inventory Facility contained a number of covenants that may have limited U. S. Steels ability to incur debt, make capital expenditures, sell assets, incur liens and make dividend and other restricted payments. The Inventory Facility also included a fixed charge coverage ratio test, which had to be met if availability was less than $100 million. In October 2004, the Inventory Facility was amended and restated to extend its maturity until October 2009, increase advance rates on semi finished and raw materials, reduce certain reserves, and modify pricing terms. In addition, many of the restrictive covenants apply now only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had in excess of $600 million of eligible inventory under the Inventory Facility, and utilized $6 million for letters of credit, reducing availability to $594 million. At December 31, 2004, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. In the third quarter of 2004, USSB entered into a new EUR 9.3 million (which approximated $12.7 million at December 31, 2004) committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility has a term of one year, and can be extended by mutual agreement of the parties for up to two additional one year periods. At December 31, 2004, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes), and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. 46 Table of Contents The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.2 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $118 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2004, an increase of $5 million during 2004, and expects to commit approximately $10 million to $20 million more during 2005. U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2004, in the amount of $42 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as obligations relating to Industrial Development and Environmental Improvement Bonds and Notes in the amount of $472 million and certain lease obligations totaling $190 million that were assumed by U. S. Steel from Marathon, may be declared immediately due and payable. 47 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2004: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents (a) $ 1,021 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSE credit facilities 69 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,184 (a) Excludes $16 million of cash, which resulted from the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership, because it is not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity at December 31, 2004 increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2004, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,373 $ 8 $ 33 $ 379 $ 953 Operating leases(b) 460 118 169 57 116 Capital commitments(c) 355 59 39 257 USSB Commitments 22 3 19 Environmental commitments(c) 123 21 102 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e ) 26 55 29 (e ) Other postretirement benefits (f ) 243 545 475 (f ) Total contractual obligations (g ) $ 475 $ 844 $ 959 (g ) (a) See Note 17 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2005 through 2009 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to 48 Table of Contents pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets which were managed by the Real Estate segment, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit plan in 2005. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $12 million to plans not funded by trusts in 2005. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2004, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 93 $ 65 $ 20 $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 21 4 17 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 28 28 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 25 8 1 14 2 Contingent liabilities: Marathon obligations(a)(d) 42 15 19 8 Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 1,627 1,001 383 152 91 Total commercial commitments $ 1,986 $ 1,093 $ 423 $ 174 $ 296 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of substrate and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In 2003, U. S. Steel entered into two off balance sheet arrangements for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. These operating lease arrangements are with special purpose trusts (SPTs). The SPTs financed the construction of the facilities and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficial owners of the SPTs. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of these entities. There are no guarantees of the obligations of these SPTs by U. S. Steel, and U. S. Steel would incur no significant penalties that would result in the reasonable assurance of continuation of the leases. U. S. Steels transactions with the SPTs are limited to the operating lease agreements, and the associated 49 Table of Contents lease expense is included in cost of revenues on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate these SPTs because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has unconditional supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 4 and Note 18 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 15 year agreement for the supply of electric power at Gary Works in Indiana, expiring in 2011. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of a 161 megawatt steam extraction turbine for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. Gary Works employees operate and maintain the facility and Gary Works supplies the steam for the turbine. This power is the first dispatched source of power to Gary Works. There are no take or pay obligations associated with this requirements contract and U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement results in an increase of approximately $60 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required 50 Table of Contents to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. 51 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Domestic: Capital $ 24 $ 8 $ 4 Compliance Operating & maintenance 241 206 171 Remediation(b) 18 38 36 Total Domestic $ 283 $ 252 $ 211 USSE: Capital $ 97 $ 22 $ 10 Compliance Operating & maintenance 8 10 8 Remediation(b) 3 3 1 Total USSE $ 108 $ 35 $ 19 Total U. S. Steel $ 391 $ 287 $ 230 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 21 percent of total capital expenditures in 2004, 10 percent in 2003 and 5 percent in 2002. Compliance expenditures represented 2 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2004, and 3 percent in 2003 and 2002. Remediation spending during 2002 to 2004 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2004, U. S. Steel accrued $34 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2004, was $123 million. Environmental spending in 2004 totaled $23 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2005. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $128 million in 2005, $69 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2005 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2006, including $90 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured electric cable; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. 53 Table of Contents Outlook for 2005 First quarter 2005 average realized prices for Flat rolled are expected to remain in line with or increase slightly from fourth quarter levels; however, results will be negatively affected by higher costs for raw materials, as well as slightly lower shipments. For full year 2005, Flat rolled shipments are expected to be about 15.4 million tons, reflecting the planned outage at the Gary No. 13 blast furnace. For USSE, first quarter average realized prices are expected to be moderately higher than in the fourth quarter of 2004, with shipments remaining about the same and costs for raw materials increasing significantly. USSE shipments for full year 2005 are projected to increase by about 15 percent to approximately 5.8 million net tons due mainly to higher operating levels at the Serbian facilities following the planned mid year startup of a second blast furnace. Shipments for Tubular in the first quarter of 2005 are expected to be at about the same level as in 2004s fourth quarter, while average realized prices are expected to continue to increase. Tubular announced price increases for certain products ranging from $50 to $250 per ton effective in January 2005. Full year shipments are expected to increase to 1.2 million tons. Costs will increase as a result of annual transfer value adjustments for semi finished steel, which comprehend raw material cost escalation, and higher costs for purchased rounds. First quarter 2005 results for Other Businesses will decline compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 due to normal seasonal effects at iron ore operations in Minnesota. In accordance with the previously announced settlement agreement with the City of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana regarding past years Gary Works personal property taxes, a Lake County appeals board is expected to consider a motion to resolve the appeals in accordance with the proposed settlement in early 2005. If the settlement is approved and becomes final as submitted, U. S. Steel would pay $44 million and would recognize a favorable income effect reflecting the reversal of liabilities accrued in excess of the settlement amount. Total costs in 2005 for domestic defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately the same as in 2004. For further information, see Critical Accounting Estimates Pensions and OPEB. This outlook contains forward looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices, tax settlements and employee benefit costs. Some factors, among others, that could affect market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both domestic operations and USSE include global product demand, prices and mix; global and company steel production levels; plant operating performance; the timing and completion of facility projects; natural gas prices and usage; raw materials availability and prices; changes in environmental, tax and other laws; employee strikes; power outages; legal proceedings regarding the proposed Gary Works tax settlement and U.S. and global economic performance and political developments. Domestic steel shipments and prices could be affected by import levels and actions taken by the U.S. Government and its agencies. Political factors in Europe that may affect USSEs results include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures. Future pension costs will be influenced by the market performance of plan assets, laws and regulations regarding discount rates and other calculations, and other economic factors. Future costs for active and retiree medical benefits will be influenced by medical inflation rates, future laws and regulations and retiree participation levels. Accounting Standards In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R) which addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that do not have sufficient equity investment to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. The Interpretation provides guidance related to identifying variable interest entities and determining whether such entities should be consolidated. It also provides guidance related to the initial and subsequent measurement of assets, liabilities and 54 Table of Contents noncontrolling interests in newly consolidated variable interest entities and requires disclosures for both the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and other beneficiaries of the entity. In accordance with FIN 46R, U. S. Steel consolidated the 1314B Partnership as of January 1, 2004. See further discussion in Note 18 to the Financial statements. In May 2004, FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106 2 (FSP FAS 106 2), Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Drug Act) was issued. FSP FAS 106 2 finalizes the accounting for the Drug Act and specifies that the effect of the Federal subsidy on a benefit plans accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) shall be accounted for as an actuarial experience gain. U. S. Steel accounted for the estimated effects of the Drug Act on its APBO as of December 31, 2003. Estimated savings of $450 million were included as an actuarial gain primarily due to changes in participation assumptions caused by the impact of the Drug Act in combination with the cost cap negotiated with the USWA in May 2003 and due to savings from reduced costs for mineworker participants because it is anticipated that the mineworkers union drug program will qualify for the Federal subsidy. Periodic postretirement benefit costs for 2004 were reduced by $60 million due to the estimated impact of these changes. There may also be significant clarifications of the Drug Act in future years that could significantly alter some or all of U. S. Steels assumptions. Furthermore, the participant withdrawal rates could occur at a different pace than has been assumed and the estimated savings could be greater or less than currently identified. No guidance has been issued regarding the effects of the Drug Act on U. S. Steels liabilities under the Coal Act of 1992, which is currently being accounted for under FAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 151 Inventory Costs (FAS 151) which amends ARB 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expenses, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges. In addition, FAS 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of FAS 151 are effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to inventory costs incurred on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect this Statement to have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, (FAS 123R) which is a revision of FAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, (FAS 123) and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. This Statement applies to U. S. Steel for all awards granted on or after July 1, 2005, and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after July 1, 2005, for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for pro forma disclosures. U. S. Steel expects the effect of adopting this Statement on 2005 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $15 million. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 152, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 66 and 67. This Statement amends FASB Statements No. 66 and 67 in association with the issuance of SOP 04 2, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, which applies to all real estate time sharing transactions. This Statement is effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to any real estate time sharing transactions occurring on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not have any real estate time sharing arrangements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. This Statement eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29 and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. This Statement specifies that a nonmonetary 55 Table of Contents exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of this Statement are effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this Statement prospectively to nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring on or after January 1, 2006. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, (FSP FAS 109 1) which states that the FASB staff believes that the qualified production activities deduction provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109 (FAS 109.) This FSP was effective upon issuance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which states that the FASB staff believes that the lack of clarification of certain provisions within the Act and the timing of the enactment necessitate a practical exemption to the FAS 109 requirement to reflect in the period of enactment the effect of a new tax law. Accordingly, an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying FAS 109. See Note 13 to the Financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas, heating oil and nonferrous metals and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. 56 Table of Contents Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pre tax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Decrease of(a) 2004 2003 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Zinc 2.9 7.2 1.2 3.1 Tin NA NA 0.0 0.1 Natural Gas 1.8 4.4 0.9 2.2 (a) The definition of a derivative instrument includes certain fixed price physical commodity contracts. Such instruments are included in the above table. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2004, may cause future pre tax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $4 million in 2004, compared to a gain of $1 million in 2003 and a loss of $6 million in 2002. These gains and losses were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For additional quantitative information relating to derivative commodity instruments, see Note 25 to the Financial Statements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2004 and 2003 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) As of December 31 2004 2003 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFair Value(c) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFairValue(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 8 $ $ 16 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f) $ 1,419 $ 50 $ 1,993 $ 90 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 23 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. (d) For additional information, see Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (e) Includes amounts due within one year. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 17 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels portfolio of long term debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $50 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases 57 Table of Contents in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $14.3 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $47.0 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2004 euro forward rates would result in a $6.1 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 58 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains the necessary discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts its operations to be in compliance with such permits. For additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 22,000 domestically and approximately 26,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented 20 Table of Contents by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in February 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Represented employees at USSB are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. All other filings are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the Securities and Exchange Commissions web site, the Internet address of which is www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on revenues and income (loss) of the reportable segments and Other Businesses and on revenues and other income and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 5 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 57 and F 58. 21 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Olympic Laser Processing(b) Van Buren, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Pipe Mills Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar and Delray Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 22 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Granite City, Illinois, which had been subject to a lease through 2012, was purchased in June 2004. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 215 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 23 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) Approximately 4 percent did not specify any damages sought at all, approximately 6 percent alleged damages of $1.0 million or less, another 0.6 percent alleged damages between $2.0 million and $10.0 million, and 0.4 percent alleged damages over $10 million. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 17,100 active claims outstanding. In 2002, U. S. Steel settled 1,135 claims for a total of approximately $700,000, and had a total of 2,662 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and 842 new claims filed. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that 24 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2004, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 20 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 8 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 10 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of sharing in any final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In 1988, U. S. Steel and two other PRPs (Bethlehem Steel Corporation and William Fiore) agreed to the issuance of an administrative order by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to undertake emergency removal work at the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. The cost of such removal, which has been completed, was approximately $4.2 million, of which U. S. Steel paid $3.4 million. EPA indicated that further remediation of this site would be required. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. After a Feasibility Study (FS) by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) and submission of a conceptual remedial action plan in 2001 by U. S. Steel, U. S. Steel submitted a revised conceptual remedial action plan on May 31, 2002. U. S. Steel and PADEP signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible 25 Table of Contents for remediation of this site. On March 18, 2003, PADEP notified U. S. Steel that the public comment period was concluded and the Consent Order and Agreement is final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $7.0 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from EPA requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/FS. The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project based on the groups selection from the range of alternatives presented in the FS is estimated to be $6.4 million. Of that total, U. S. Steels allocable share among the eight PRPs is approximately $1.0 million. In addition, U. S. Steels share of PRP group costs is expected to be less than $100,000 in 2005. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities The following is a discussion of other remediation activities at the major domestic U. S. Steel facilities: There are 39 additional sites related to U. S. Steel where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 4 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 17 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 5 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. Another 4 sites, including the Grand Calumet River remediation at Gary Works, the closure of hazardous waste sites at Gary Works, the claim for investigation, restoration and compensation of injuries to sediments in the east branch of the Grand Calumet River near Gary Works, and corrective action and groundwater investigation at Gary Works, have or are expected to have costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation in excess of $5 million. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. In 1999, U. S. Steel paid civil penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs. In addition, U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with NPDES requirements. The sediment remediation project is an approved final interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works. As of December 31, 2004, project costs have amounted to $51.5 million with another $100,000 presently projected to complete work under the approved sediment remediation plan. A Dredge Completion Report was submitted to EPA on March 29, 2004. EPA responded with written comments on the report. In response, U. S. Steel conducted additional sampling of river sediments in a portion of the dredge project area. Based on the results of the additional sediment sampling, U. S. Steel is considering additional dredging that would include additional substantial bank stabilization measures. Negotiations to have this additional work considered as a final measure are proceeding. The additional dredging and bank stabilization is anticipated to cost approximately $9.0 million. At the conclusion of the dredge project, the Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) will remain available and could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective 26 Table of Contents measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to the Administrative Order on Consent for corrective action. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $4.9 million. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River, costs of which are estimated to be $2.4 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property. The D2 disposal site and a nearby refuse area will be closed collectively. Total costs to close D2, D5, T2 and the refuse area are estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The public trustees completed a preassessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have determined to perform a Natural Resources Damages Assessment. U. S. Steel was identified as a PRP along with 15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. U. S. Steel and eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The trustees notified the public of their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. In 2000, the trustees concluded their assessment of sediment injuries, which included a technical review of environmental conditions. The PRP joint defense group has proposed terms for the settlement of this claim, which have been endorsed by representatives of the trustees and EPA to be included in a consent decree that U. S. Steel expects will resolve this claim. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs, and obtained an 8 acre parcel of land that has been transferred to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for addition to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Park owned by the National Park Service. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement has been executed by the parties and lodged with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana on August 20, 2004. Concurrent with this lodging of the Consent Decree, the United States of America filed its complaint titled United States of America v. Atlantic Richfield, et. al. asserting liability for its claim against the settling parties. In December 2004, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) filed a motion with the court that requested approval and entry of the consent decree. On October 23, 1998, a final Administrative Order on Consent was issued by EPA addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. The Current Conditions Report, U. S. Steels first deliverable, was submitted to EPA in January 1997 and was approved by EPA in 1998. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans and a self implementing interim measure have been submitted to EPA for approval. Two other self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $14.9 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations and the submitted work plans is estimated to be $6.4 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to present. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $424,000. 27 Table of Contents Fairfield Works In December 1995, U. S. Steel reached an agreement in principle with EPA and DOJ with respect to alleged RCRA violations at Fairfield Works. A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and DOJ and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved for the site on September 16, 2002. Field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel is currently preparing a Phase I RFI Report for submission to ADEM in early 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $414,000. In addition, U. S. Steel is developing a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. Lower Opossum Creek is approximately 4.5 miles of the Opossum Creek Area of Concern. U. S. Steel is investigating Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the investigation costs. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of this investigation and costs to implement sediment remediation to be $823,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $478,000. Lorain Pipe Mills In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe), was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. USS/Kobe and EPA commenced settlement negotiations in July 1999. In August 1999, the steelmaking and bar producing operations of USS/Kobe were combined with companies controlled by Blackstone Capital Partners II to form Republic. The tubular operations of USS/Kobe were transferred to a newly formed entity, Lorain Tubular Company, LLC (Lorain Tubular), which operated as a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe until December 31, 1999, when U. S. Steel purchased all of Kobes interest in Lorain Tubular. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Pipe Mills. U. S. Steel and EPA have agreed upon terms of settlement that include a cash penalty for U. S. Steel of $100,000 plus a supplemental environmental project to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Negotiations on the final terms and conditions of the consent decree are ongoing. Most of the matters raised by EPA relate to Republics facilities; however, air discharges from U. S. Steels No. 3 seamless pipe mill were also cited and U. S. Steel will be responsible for conducting a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. U. S. Steel will be responsible only for matters relating to its facilities. Issues related to Republic have been resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works U. S. Steel has agreed to the terms of a consent decree that will include the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the BOP; a civil penalty of $950,000; and a supplemental environmental project at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Great Lakes Works continues to identify and evaluate potential operating practices and facility improvements to reduce emissions. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $12.9 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through December 31, 2004. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $363,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. 28 Table of Contents Geneva Works In November 1989, the Utah Department of Environmental Quality issued a permit to U. S. Steel for the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments including facility wide corrective action at U. S. Steels former Geneva Works. The permit was administratively extended until May 14, 2004, when it was reissued to U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company (Geneva), the site owner. The permit allocates responsibility for corrective action between U. S. Steel and Geneva. U. S. Steel has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations on some areas of the facility for which U. S. Steel has responsibility under the permit. The remaining costs to prepare these work plans, implement field investigations and continue post closure care on the three hazardous waste impoundments are estimated to be approximately $5.6 million. On June 2, 2004, Geneva filed a motion in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Utah to approve the amendment and assumption of the 1987 Asset Sales Agreement, the acceptance of the permit and the retention of a remediation contractor. On July 7, 2004, the motion was heard and granted providing for Genevas continuing involvement and funding of the remediation required by the permit. Other In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The site was owned by Armour Agriculture Chemical Company (now named Viad) from 1912 to 1968. U. S. Steel owned the site from 1968 to 1986 and sold the site to LaRoche Industries in 1986. The agreed order allocated responsibility for assessment and cleanup costs as follows: Viad 48 percent, U. S. Steel 26 percent and LaRoche 26 percent; and LaRoche was appointed to be the lead party responsible for conducting the cleanup. In March 2001, U. S. Steel was notified that LaRoche had filed for protection under bankruptcy law. On August 23, 2001, the allocation of responsibility for this site assessment and cleanup and the cost allocation was approved by the bankruptcy court in the LaRoche bankruptcy. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $801,000, based on the allocation factor of 26 percent. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas. The site is a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. U. S. Steel agreed in a Consent Order before KDHE, signed April 7, 2003, with KDHE and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Under that agreement, U. S. Steel and SSB each bear a 50 percent share of the costs of those responsibilities. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.2 million. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2005, are as follows: John J. Connelly 58 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 56 Executive Vice PresidentOperations Gretchen R. Haggerty 49 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer Christopher J. Navetta 56 President, U. S. Steel Kosice, s.r.o. Dan D. Sandman 56 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 55 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 57 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 50 President and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 55. As of January 31, 2005, there were 31,747 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2004, no unregistered shares were issued. 30 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2004(a) 2003 2002 2001(b) 2000(b) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues and other income(c)(d) $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 $ 6,375 $ 6,132 Income (loss) from operations(e) 1,580 (730 ) 128 (405 ) 104 Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) 1,077 (406 ) 61 (218 ) (21 ) Net income (loss)(e) $ 1,091 $ (463 ) $ 61 $ (218 ) $ (21 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(f) basic $ 9.47 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.37 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Net income (loss)(f) basic 9.60 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.48 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Dividends paid(g) .20 .20 .20 .55 1.00 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 10,956 $ 7,837 $ 7,977 $ 8,337 $ 8,711 Capitalization: Notes payable $ $ $ $ $ 70 Long term debt including amount due within one year(h) 1,371 1,933 1,434 1,466 2,375 Preferred stock of subsidiary(i) 66 Trust Preferred Securities(i) 183 Stockholders equity 3,970 1,093 2,027 2,506 1,919 Total capitalization $ 5,341 $ 3,026 $ 3,461 $ 3,972 $ 4,613 (a) Includes minor revisions from the unaudited results reported on Form 8 K filed on January 25, 2005. Unaudited results for the year ended December 31, 2004, were income from operations of $1,584 million and net income of $1,085 million, or $8.44 per diluted share. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon). On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2000, and the income statement for each of the two years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, represent a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. Stockholders equity as of December 31, 2000, represents the combined net assets of the businesses comprising U. S. Steel (Marathons net investment in U. S. Steel). (c) Consists of revenues, dividend and investee income (loss), net gains on disposal of assets and other income (loss). (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in revenues and other income from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic, which was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. These were partially offset by reduced domestic tubular and plate shipment volumes. The increase in revenues and other income from 2000 to 2001 was mainly due to the inclusion of USSK revenues for the full year, the inclusion of Transtar revenues following the reorganization and higher income from investees relating to the gain on the Transtar reorganization; partially offset by lower domestic sheet, tubular and plate shipment volumes, lower average realized prices for domestic sheet products, and the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. The decrease from 2000 to 2001 mainly resulted from lower prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; higher employee benefit costs; lower results from coal, iron ore pellet and tin operations; and increased asset impairments; partially offset by a full year of income from USSK and the gain on the Transtar reorganization. (f) See Note 11 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (g) For years 2000 and 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (h) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease in long term debt from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to transactions related to the separation from Marathon. (i) At the separation from Marathon, these securities were either redeemed for cash by Marathon, or retained by Marathon and redeemed or repaid in January 2002. 31 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel is the second largest integrated steel producer in North America and has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume; selling prices; production costs; and value added product mix, since these products typically provide a higher profit margin than more commodity type steel products. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on its ability to implement the strategy described below. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, and U. S. Steel in particular, include the sustainability of higher steel prices; the steep increase in the cost of purchased raw materials; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has led to much of the recent volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States increased significantly during 2004 and could continue to increase depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, and consumption in the United States versus other regions. Strategy U. S. Steels business strategy is to continue to grow its investment in high end finishing assets, expand its global business platform, reduce its costs and become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets where management believes that U. S. Steels leadership position, production and processing capabilities and technical service provide a competitive advantage. These products include advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets for the construction industry, improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods. U. S. Steel continues to enhance its value added businesses through the upgrading and modernization of its key production facilities. U. S. Steel continues to be interested in participating in further consolidation of the North American steel industry if it would be beneficial to customers, shareholders, creditors and employees. U. S. Steel continues to explore additional opportunities for steel and raw materials investments in Europe. U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading European steel producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing 32 Table of Contents European markets, to grow its customer base in Europe by providing reliable delivery of high quality steel and to invest in value added facilities, including a planned automotive hot dip galvanizing line, to improve USSEs product mix. Expansion opportunities in Europe and North America would be attractive to U. S. Steel. South America, China and India are also possible areas of interest. In 2004, U. S. Steel concentrated on successfully integrating the businesses acquired in 2003 (discussed below), improving its balance sheet, increasing liquidity and continuing to strengthen its core steel businesses in order to be better positioned for further expansion and continued improvements to its existing facilities. An equity offering of 8 million common shares was completed in March 2004 for net proceeds of $294 million, which were primarily used to redeem certain senior notes. In April 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of its 10 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of its 9 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. In addition, USSK retired $281 million of long term debt in 2004. In total these debt repayments reduced annualized interest expense by approximately $50 million. Also during 2004, U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan and $30 million to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In October 2004, U. S. Steels $600 million revolving credit facility was amended and restated to: 1) extend the maturity to October 2009, 2) increase the borrowing base, 3) reduce the pricing for both borrowings and undrawn commitments, and 4) limit the application of many of the restrictive covenants. In February 2004, U. S. Steel continued to divest its non core assets when it sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. In 2003, U. S. Steel engaged in several significant transactions aimed at strengthening its core steel businesses. On May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy substantially all of the integrated steelmaking assets of National Steel Corporation (National). See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. The facilities that were acquired included two integrated steel plants, Granite City Works in Granite City, Illinois, and Great Lakes Works in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan; the Midwest Plant in Portage, Indiana; ProCoil Company LLC (ProCoil) in Canton, Michigan; a 50 percent equity interest in Double G Coatings Company, L.P. (Double G) near Jackson, Mississippi; the iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota (Keetac); and the Delray Connecting Railroad Company (Delray) in Michigan. This acquisition increased annual domestic raw steel production capability by 6.6 million net tons (tons) to 19.4 million tons. U. S. Steel and the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) reached a five year labor agreement that was effective upon the completion of the National acquisition and which covers both U. S. Steel and former National employees. This agreement allowed for a workforce restructuring aimed at achieving a 20 percent productivity improvement, expanded profit based variable compensation, provided cost sharing mechanisms for employee and retiree health care expenses, and provided a joint mechanism to consider further acquisitions of steel and steel related assets in North America. On September 12, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy Sartid a.d. (In Bankruptcy), an integrated steel company located in the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Sartid). U. S. Steel is operating these facilities as USSB. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. This acquisition increased annual European raw steel production capability by 2.4 million tons to 7.4 million tons. On June 30, 2003, U. S. Steel completed the sale of its coal mines and related assets (Mining Sale). As a result, U. S. Steel no longer mines any coal. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale. In a non monetary transaction in November 2003, U. S. Steels plate mill at Gary Works was exchanged for a pickling line located in East Chicago, Indiana. This was U. S. Steels only plate mill; however, U. S. Steel still produces plate in coil on its hot strip mills at Gary Works and at its European operations. 33 Table of Contents In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. Straightline Source (Straightline) was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2005. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total $230 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets for 2005 would have decreased or increased, respectively, the expected net periodic pension cost by $34 million. U. S. Steel determines the discount rate applied to pension and OPEB obligations at each year end or required interim period based on a number of external barometers used to measure the status of high quality bond rates consistent with the expected payout period of the obligations. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 6.0 percent to 5.75 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2005 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. Total OPEB costs in 2005 are expected to be approximately $109 million. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, a 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased pension and OPEB liabilities by $340 million and $110 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased pension and OPEB liabilities by $370 million and $120 million, respectively. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on 34 Table of Contents the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most salaried benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2005. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the escalation trend would have increased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $8 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the escalation trend would have decreased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $7 million in 2005. Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. The amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2004, was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of these net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004 and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2004, total accruals for environmental remediation were $123 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. 35 Table of Contents Segments During 2004, U. S. Steel had four reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE), Tubular Products (Tubular) and Real Estate. As of January 1, 2004, the residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. The application of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, resulted in U. S. Steel consolidating the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. (1314B Partnership) effective January 1, 2004. The results of the 1314B Partnership, which are included in the Flat rolled segment, were previously accounted for under the equity method. For further information, see Notes 4 and 18 to the Financial Statements. The National acquisition changed the composition of the Flat rolled segment and Other Businesses as described below, but did not result in a change in U. S. Steels reportable segments. Effective with the Mining Sale, Other Businesses are no longer involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. Effective with the acquisition of Sartid, the USSK segment was renamed USSE and includes the operating results of both USSK and USSB. Effective with the third quarter of 2003, the composition of the Flat rolled segment was changed to include the results of the coke operations at Clairton Works and Gary Works, which were previously reported in Other Businesses. This change reflected U. S. Steels management consolidations. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2003, benefit expenses for current retirees are separately identified and are no longer allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. These expenses include pensions, health care, life insurance and any profit based expenses for the benefit of retirees. Benefit expenses for active employees continue to be allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. Furthermore, U. S. Steel changed its methodology for allocating certain corporate costs. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for details. These changes were made so that operating results of U. S. Steels reportable segments will better reflect their current contribution and so that U. S. Steels segment results will be more comparable to those of its primary competitors who do not have significant fixed retiree obligations. Comparative results have been conformed to the current year presentation. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the service centers, conversion, transportation (including automotive), containers, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G, which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with Sartid. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service centers, appliance, containers, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed and developed for sale or lease. In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. In February 2004, U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. Prior to the disposition of these assets, results they generated were reported in the Real Estate segment. The Straightline segment included the operating results of U. S. Steels technology enabled distribution business that was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. 36 Table of Contents All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services, and engineering and consulting services. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of Keetac and Delray, which were acquired from National. Prior to the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer value for rounds supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and the transfer value of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs. Income The principal drivers of U. S. Steels financial results are price, volume, cost and product mix. To the extent that these factors are affected by industry conditions and the overall economic climate, revenues and income will reflect such conditions. Revenues and other income (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003(a) 2002 Revenues by product: Flat rolled steel products $ 11,549 $ 7,372 $ 5,115 Tubular 1,042 626 555 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore)(b) 705 419 513 Other(c) 673 911 766 Income (loss) from investees 57 (11 ) 33 Net gains on disposal of assets 57 85 29 Other income 25 56 43 Total revenues and other income $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Revenue from the sale of coal ceased with the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003. Includes revenue from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. Included revenue from steel mill products distribution prior to January 1, 2004, when the residual results of Straightline were included in Flat rolled; and revenue from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Total revenues and other income in 2004 increased $4,650 million compared to 2003. The increases primarily reflected higher average realized prices for Flat rolled, Tubular and European operations; higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet, tin and tubular products; higher shipment volumes for USSE; and higher revenues on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill and the absence of revenues from coal sales in 2004 due to the Mining Sale. Revenues for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues and other income in 2004 included a $43 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $36 million and other income of $7 million. Revenues and other income in 2003 included a net gain on disposal of assets of $55 million resulting from the timber contribution to the pension plan and a $47 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $13 million and other income of $34 million. Total revenues and other income in 2003 increased $2,404 million compared to 2002. The increase primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the Mining Sale, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. 37 Table of Contents Income from investees in 2002 included $39 million of insurance recoveries related to a 2001 fire at USS POSCO, other income included $38 million from a Federal excise tax refund, and gains on disposal of assets included $20 million from the sale of U. S. Steels shares of VSZ a.s. (VSZ). Profit based union payments Results for 2004 included costs of $241 million related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. Segment results for 2004 included $131 million of these costs and the balance was included in retiree benefit expenses. All of these costs are included in cost of revenues. Payment amounts per the agreement are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) to be contributed to a trust to assist National retirees with healthcare costs based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item are calculated in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $254 million in 2004, compared to $556 million in 2003 and a credit of $3 million in 2002. The costs in 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The credit in 2002 included $100 million of settlement losses. Excluding these one time charges, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. Excluding settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase of $212 million in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to a lower return on assets, a decline in the expected return on assets assumption and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $106 million in 2004, compared to $241 million in 2003 and $150 million in 2002. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. The increase in 2003 compared to 2002, excluding the curtailment charges, was primarily due to the addition of liabilities for National employees, changes in rate of retirement assumptions and a lower discount rate. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $18 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003 and 2002. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase in 2004 was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights and lower OPEB costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $673 million in 2003, compared to $418 million in 2002. The increase in 2003 was primarily due to higher pension and OPEB costs, increased compensation expense related 38 Table of Contents to stock appreciation rights, and higher expenses at USSE due mainly to unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange rate differences and increased business development expenses. These were partially offset by the favorable effect in 2003 of the absence of the impairment of retiree medical cost reimbursements receivable from Republic, which occurred in 2002. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for further details. Income (loss) from operations: (a) (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Flat rolled $ 1,185 $ (54 ) $ (84 ) USSE 394 203 110 Tubular 197 (25 ) (6 ) Real Estate 30 50 50 Straightline (70 ) (45 ) Total income (loss) from reportable segments 1,806 104 25 Other Businesses 28 (35 ) 33 Segment Income (Loss) from operations 1,834 69 58 Retiree benefit (expenses) credits (257 ) (107 ) 79 Other items not allocated to segments: Workforce reduction charges (including pension settlements) (17 ) (621 ) (100 ) Stock appreciation rights (23 ) (75 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Asset impairments (57 ) (14 ) Litigation items (25 ) 9 Costs related to Fairless shutdown (1 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire 39 Federal excise tax refund 38 Gain on VSZ share sale 20 Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,580 $ (730 ) $ 128 (a) See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices, which increased by $152 per ton; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. Flat rolled recorded a segment loss of $54 million in 2003, compared to a loss of $84 million in 2002. The decreased loss was primarily due to higher average realized prices and favorable effects resulting from ongoing cost improvement programs, the National acquisition and workforce reductions. These were partially offset by increased prices for raw materials, natural gas and utilities; higher employee benefit costs; increased costs for repair outages; and costs associated with the August 2003 power outage, which interrupted operations in Michigan and Ohio. 39 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income for 2004 was $394 million, compared to income of $203 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, which increased by $171 per ton, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. USSE segment income for the full year 2003 reflected an increase of $93 million from 2002. The improvement was primarily due to higher average realized prices as a result of favorable exchange rate effects and price increases, as well as higher shipment volumes. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, USSE shipments included those realized under toll conversion agreements with Sartid and, effective September 12, 2003, included all shipments from USSB (formerly Sartid). These improvements were partially offset by the unfavorable effect on costs of changes in foreign exchange rates; costs associated with the conversion and facility management agreements with Sartid, which were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition; and post acquisition operating losses at USSB including effects from a 38 day strike. Segment results for Tubular Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices, which increased by $233 per ton. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of tube rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which are transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. The segment loss for Tubular in 2003 reflected a decline of $19 million from 2002 primarily due to lower average realized prices for seamless products and higher natural gas prices, partially offset by increased shipment volumes for seamless products and income from the sale of Delta Tubular Processing. Segment results for Real Estate Real Estate segment income for 2004 was $30 million, down $20 million from 2003. The decrease primarily reflected lower mineral interest royalties as a result of the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Real Estate segment income for 2003 and 2002 was $50 million. Increased coal seam gas royalties were offset by lower real estate sales. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses recorded income of $28 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $35 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services. The loss for Other Businesses for 2003 reflected a decline of $68 million from income of $33 million in 2002. The decrease mainly reflected lower results from iron ore pellet operations due primarily to reduced shipment volumes, and lower results for coal operations and transportation services. Items not allocated to segments: Stock appreciation rights resulted in $23 million and $75 million of compensation expense accrued in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued over the last ten years and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. No stock appreciation rights were issued in 2004. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees, while the $100 million in 2002 reflected pension settlement losses related to retirements of personnel covered under the 40 Table of Contents non union qualified pension plan and the non qualified defined benefit pension plan. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels ongoing operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Asset impairments in 2002 were for charges related to reserves established against receivables exposure from financially distressed steel companies, primarily Republic. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of Real Estates remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain of Real Estates coal seam gas interests and from the Mining Sale. Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire represent U. S. Steels share of insurance recoveries in excess of facility repair costs for the cold reduction mill fire at USS POSCO, which occurred in May 2001. The final payment was received in December 2002. Federal excise tax refund represents the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales during the period 1993 through 1999. During 2002, U. S. Steel received cash and recognized pre tax income of $38 million, which is included in other income on the statement of operations. Of the $38 million received, $11 million represented interest. Net interest and other financial costs Net interest and other financial costs were $119 million in 2004, compared to $130 million in 2003 and $115 million in 2002. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. The decrease in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected lower interest on tax related liabilities, partially due to the more favorable 2004 adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes, more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and increased interest income. These favorable items were partially offset by a $33 million charge resulting from the early redemption of certain senior debt in April 2004. The $15 million increase from 2002 to 2003 was primarily due to interest on the new 9 3/4% senior notes, partially offset by more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and lower interest on tax related liabilities resulting from the favorable $17 million adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of both, and resulted in net gains of $32 million, $20 million and $16 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2004 was $351 million, compared to benefits in 2003 and 2002 of $454 million and $48 million, respectively. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefits in 2003 and 2002 included favorable effects relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million and $8 million, respectively. The change to a tax provision in 2004 as compared to tax benefits in the previous two years was primarily the result of pre tax income from domestic 41 Table of Contents operations recorded in 2004 compared to domestic pre tax losses in 2003 and 2002. The increase in the tax benefit in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to increased pre tax losses for domestic operations, including increased benefit costs. The Slovak Income Tax Act provides an income tax credit, which is available to USSK if certain conditions are met. In order to claim the tax credit in any year, 60 percent of USSKs sales must be export sales and USSK must reinvest the tax credits claimed in qualifying capital expenditures during the five years following the year in which the tax credit is claimed. The provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 100 percent of USSKs tax liability for years 2000 through 2004 and 50 percent of the current statutory rate of 19 percent for the years 2005 through 2009. Management believes that USSK fulfilled all of the necessary conditions for claiming the tax credit for the years for which it was claimed and anticipates meeting such requirements in 2005. As a result of claiming these tax credits and managements intent to reinvest earnings in foreign operations, virtually no income tax provision, except for the two $16 million tax payments discussed below, is recorded for USSK income. In connection with Slovakia joining the European Union (EU), the total tax credit granted to USSK for the period 2000 through 2009 was limited to $430 million, and USSK agreed to make tax payments of $16 million in 2004 and 2005, the first of which was paid in June 2004. Also, additional conditions for claiming the tax credit were established. These new conditions limit USSKs annual production of flat rolled product and its sales of all products into the 15 countries that were members of the EU prior to Slovakia and 9 other nations joining the EU in May 2004. Management believes the future impact of these changes will be minimal because Slovak tax laws have been modified and tax rates have been reduced since the acquisition of USSK; and the production and sales limits, which provide for annual increases through 2009, are not materially burdensome. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004, and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax liabilities of $314 million and $61 million, respectively. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2004, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the lack of historical information and the losses experienced in the months immediately following the acquisition of USSB. If USSB continues to generate income, the valuation allowance of $17 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2004 was $1,091 million, compared with a net loss of $463 million in 2003 and net income of $61 million in 2002. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Operations Flat rolled shipments were 15.6 million tons in 2004, 13.5 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from the facilities acquired from National, and 9.9 million tons in 2002. Tubular shipments were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 0.9 million tons in 2003 and 0.8 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 4 percent of U. S. Steels domestic shipments in 2004 and 2003, and 5 percent in 2002. USSE shipments were 5.0 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from USSB, and 4.0 million tons in 2002. 42 Table of Contents The acquisition of the assets of National on May 20, 2003, increased U. S. Steels stated annual raw steel production capability for domestic operations from 12.8 millions tons to 19.4 million tons. Raw steel production was 17.3 million tons in 2004, compared with 14.9 million tons in 2003, including production from the National assets following the acquisition, and 11.5 million tons in 2002. Raw steel production averaged 89 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 88 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the National capability on a prorata basis, and 90 percent of capability in 2002. All steel produced in U. S. Steels domestic facilities is continuous cast. Domestic capability utilization in 2004 and 2003 was reduced by scheduled blast furnace repair outages, which occurred in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2004 and in the second quarter of 2003. In 2002, domestic raw steel production was affected by poor market conditions during the first quarter, the acceleration into the fourth quarter of some blast furnace repair work that was originally scheduled to occur in 2003 and the high level of imports. The acquisition of Sartid on September 12, 2003, increased USSEs stated annual raw steel production capability from 5.0 million tons to 7.4 million tons. USSE raw steel production was 5.7 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including production from the Sartid assets following the acquisition, and 4.4 million tons in 2002. USSEs raw steel production averaged 77 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 84 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the Sartid capability on a prorata basis, and 88 percent in 2002. USSEs capability utilization in 2004 was reduced by the inclusion of USSB, as well as by operational difficulties with a blast furnace in Slovakia during the first quarter. USSEs capability utilization in 2003 was reduced by a blast furnace outage at USSK and the partial period inclusion of USSB as only about a third of its annual production capability was operational at the time of its acquisition in September 2003. USSBs capability utilization averaged 48 percent in 2004 and 20 percent in 2003 following the acquisition. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2004 increased $1,137 million from year end 2003 primarily due to increased cash balances and higher trade receivables. The increase in cash was mainly due to improved operations, $294 million of net proceeds from an equity offering and proceeds from the disposal of assets, partially offset by capital spending, the voluntary funding of benefit plans, the repayment of USSK debt and the redemption of certain senior notes. The increase in trade receivables primarily resulted from higher revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004, compared to last years fourth quarter, resulting mainly from higher steel prices. FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability is no longer required for this plan. Consequently, required entries were recorded that increased prepaid pensions by $2.48 billion, decreased the intangible pension asset by $440 million and resulted in a net credit to equity of $1.45 billion, which decreased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2004 decreased $325 million from year end 2003 and long term deferred income tax liabilities increased $592 million, primarily due to the elimination of federal and state deferred tax assets that were established in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2004 increased $404 million from year end 2003 mainly due to increases in accounts payable and payroll and benefits payable. The increase in accounts payable resulted mainly from higher raw materials costs and increased purchases of capital assets in late 2004 compared to the same period last year. The increase in payroll and benefits payable was primarily due to liabilities resulting from the profit based union payments that were previously discussed. Long term debt at December 31, 2004, was $1,363 million, $527 million lower than year end 2003. The decrease in debt was primarily due to the retirement of $281 million of USSK long term debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. 43 Table of Contents Employee benefits at December 31, 2004, decreased $257 million from year end 2003. Employee benefits at year end 2003 included the net pension liability related to an additional minimum liability adjustment for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan. In addition, OPEB liabilities decreased primarily because the sum of retiree medical benefit payments made in cash and a $30 million voluntary cash contribution to a trust exceeded the amount of retiree medical expense booked in 2004. Retiree medical expense was $60 million lower in 2004 as compared to 2003 due to recognition of the estimated effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and a cost cap negotiated with the USWA in 2003. For further information, see Estimated Future Benefit Payments in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Additional paid in capital increased by $354 million from the prior year end primarily reflecting U. S. Steels equity offering that was completed in March 2004. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities was $1,400 million in 2004, compared with $577 million in 2003. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items was partially offset by increased working capital requirements. Cash from operating activities in 2004 was reduced by $295 million of voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan, $186 million of OPEB payments, $50 million of payments to a multiemployer pension plan, $44 million of payments to pension plans not funded by trusts and $30 million of contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In 2003, OPEB payments were primarily funded by trusts. The $75 million in voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan in 2003 consisted of timber cutting rights valued at $59 million and $16 million of cash. Further contributions totaling $15 million were made to other smaller pension plans in 2003. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2006. Net cash provided from operating activities of $577 million in 2003 reflected an improvement of $298 million compared to 2002. The improvement resulted mainly from lower working capital requirements. Capital expenditures in 2004 were $579 million, compared with $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Major domestic projects in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills. Major projects at USSE in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $258 million, including $97 million for USSE. Major projects in 2002 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills and various projects at USSK, including continued work on the new tinning and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, completion of the scrap management and hot strip mill reheat furnace upgrade projects, commencement of work on a new dynamo line and installation of a vacuum degassing facility. U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2004, totaled $98 million compared with $23 million at December 31, 2003. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2004, was $257 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $135 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2004, leaving a balance of $22 million under this commitment. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements for further information. 44 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2005 are expected to be approximately $755 million, reflecting approximately $475 million for domestic operations and $280 million for European facilities. Domestic projects include the rebuild of the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, acquisition of mobile and mining equipment and coke oven thru wall repairs at Clairton Works and Gary Works. Projects in Slovakia include initial spending for a new automotive galvanizing line; and continuing work on air emissions reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include completion of the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace and steel production improvements. The preceding statement concerning expected 2005 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisitions in 2003 consisted of $839 million for the National assets, $29 million for USSB and a $37 million cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. The $38 million in 2002 was a cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. Disposal of assets in 2004 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of substantially all of the Real Estate segments remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Disposal of assets in 2003 consisted mainly of proceeds from the Mining Sale, cash collections on notes received in prior years asset disposals, the sale of the former National headquarters building and the sale of U. S. Steels interest in Delta Tubular Processing. Disposal of assets in 2002 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of U. S. Steels investment in stock of VSZ. Restricted cash Net deposits of $32 million in 2003 and $67 million in 2002 were mainly used to collateralize letters of credit to meet financial assurance requirements. Issuance of long term debt in 2003 resulted from the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May, net of deferred financing costs associated with the notes and the inventory facility. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2004 mainly reflected the retirement of long term USSK debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2003 and 2002 was mainly the USSK debt. Preferred stock issued in 2003 reflected net proceeds from the offering of 5 million shares of Series B Preferred. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004. The remaining amount mainly reflected proceeds from stock sales through the exercise of options. The 2003 amount primarily reflected sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. The 2002 amount primarily reflected $192 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in May 2002, as well as sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Dividends paid in 2004 were $39 million, compared with $35 million in 2003 and $19 million in 2002. Payments in all three periods reflected the quarterly dividend rate of five cents per common share. Dividends paid in 2004 also reflected a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share for the Series B Preferred. Dividends paid in 2003 also included an initial dividend of $1.206 per share for the Series B Preferred, which was paid on June 15, 2003, and a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share thereafter. The quarterly dividend rate per common share was increased to eight cents effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Debt and Convertible Preferred Shares Ratings On November 5, 2004, Moodys Investors Service upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating two steps, from B1 to Ba2. On November 12, 2004, Standard & Poors Ratings Services upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating from BB to BB and raised the preferred stock rating from B to B. 45 Table of Contents Liquidity In November 2001, U. S. Steel entered into a five year Receivables Purchase Agreement with financial institutions. U. S. Steel established a wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), which is a consolidated special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity that acquires, on a daily basis, eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries. USSR can sell an undivided interest in these receivables to certain commercial paper conduits. USSR pays the conduits a discount based on the conduits borrowing costs plus incremental fees, certain of which are determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, which increased fundings under the facility to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. Eligible receivables exclude certain obligors, amounts in excess of defined percentages for certain obligors, and amounts past due or due beyond a defined period. In addition, eligible receivables are calculated by deducting certain reserves, which are based on various determinants including concentration, dilution and loss percentages, as well as the credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had more than $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. While the term of the Receivables Purchase Agreement is five years, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed below and other debt obligations, any failure of USSR to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables, and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 23, 2005. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a four year revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by all domestic inventory and related assets (Inventory Facility), including receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The Inventory Facility contained a number of covenants that may have limited U. S. Steels ability to incur debt, make capital expenditures, sell assets, incur liens and make dividend and other restricted payments. The Inventory Facility also included a fixed charge coverage ratio test, which had to be met if availability was less than $100 million. In October 2004, the Inventory Facility was amended and restated to extend its maturity until October 2009, increase advance rates on semi finished and raw materials, reduce certain reserves, and modify pricing terms. In addition, many of the restrictive covenants apply now only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had in excess of $600 million of eligible inventory under the Inventory Facility, and utilized $6 million for letters of credit, reducing availability to $594 million. At December 31, 2004, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. In the third quarter of 2004, USSB entered into a new EUR 9.3 million (which approximated $12.7 million at December 31, 2004) committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility has a term of one year, and can be extended by mutual agreement of the parties for up to two additional one year periods. At December 31, 2004, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes), and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. 46 Table of Contents The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.2 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $118 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2004, an increase of $5 million during 2004, and expects to commit approximately $10 million to $20 million more during 2005. U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2004, in the amount of $42 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as obligations relating to Industrial Development and Environmental Improvement Bonds and Notes in the amount of $472 million and certain lease obligations totaling $190 million that were assumed by U. S. Steel from Marathon, may be declared immediately due and payable. 47 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2004: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents (a) $ 1,021 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSE credit facilities 69 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,184 (a) Excludes $16 million of cash, which resulted from the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership, because it is not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity at December 31, 2004 increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2004, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,373 $ 8 $ 33 $ 379 $ 953 Operating leases(b) 460 118 169 57 116 Capital commitments(c) 355 59 39 257 USSB Commitments 22 3 19 Environmental commitments(c) 123 21 102 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e ) 26 55 29 (e ) Other postretirement benefits (f ) 243 545 475 (f ) Total contractual obligations (g ) $ 475 $ 844 $ 959 (g ) (a) See Note 17 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2005 through 2009 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to 48 Table of Contents pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets which were managed by the Real Estate segment, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit plan in 2005. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $12 million to plans not funded by trusts in 2005. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2004, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 93 $ 65 $ 20 $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 21 4 17 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 28 28 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 25 8 1 14 2 Contingent liabilities: Marathon obligations(a)(d) 42 15 19 8 Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 1,627 1,001 383 152 91 Total commercial commitments $ 1,986 $ 1,093 $ 423 $ 174 $ 296 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of substrate and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In 2003, U. S. Steel entered into two off balance sheet arrangements for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. These operating lease arrangements are with special purpose trusts (SPTs). The SPTs financed the construction of the facilities and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficial owners of the SPTs. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of these entities. There are no guarantees of the obligations of these SPTs by U. S. Steel, and U. S. Steel would incur no significant penalties that would result in the reasonable assurance of continuation of the leases. U. S. Steels transactions with the SPTs are limited to the operating lease agreements, and the associated 49 Table of Contents lease expense is included in cost of revenues on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate these SPTs because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has unconditional supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 4 and Note 18 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 15 year agreement for the supply of electric power at Gary Works in Indiana, expiring in 2011. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of a 161 megawatt steam extraction turbine for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. Gary Works employees operate and maintain the facility and Gary Works supplies the steam for the turbine. This power is the first dispatched source of power to Gary Works. There are no take or pay obligations associated with this requirements contract and U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement results in an increase of approximately $60 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required 50 Table of Contents to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. 51 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Domestic: Capital $ 24 $ 8 $ 4 Compliance Operating & maintenance 241 206 171 Remediation(b) 18 38 36 Total Domestic $ 283 $ 252 $ 211 USSE: Capital $ 97 $ 22 $ 10 Compliance Operating & maintenance 8 10 8 Remediation(b) 3 3 1 Total USSE $ 108 $ 35 $ 19 Total U. S. Steel $ 391 $ 287 $ 230 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 21 percent of total capital expenditures in 2004, 10 percent in 2003 and 5 percent in 2002. Compliance expenditures represented 2 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2004, and 3 percent in 2003 and 2002. Remediation spending during 2002 to 2004 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2004, U. S. Steel accrued $34 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2004, was $123 million. Environmental spending in 2004 totaled $23 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2005. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $128 million in 2005, $69 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2005 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2006, including $90 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured electric cable; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. 53 Table of Contents Outlook for 2005 First quarter 2005 average realized prices for Flat rolled are expected to remain in line with or increase slightly from fourth quarter levels; however, results will be negatively affected by higher costs for raw materials, as well as slightly lower shipments. For full year 2005, Flat rolled shipments are expected to be about 15.4 million tons, reflecting the planned outage at the Gary No. 13 blast furnace. For USSE, first quarter average realized prices are expected to be moderately higher than in the fourth quarter of 2004, with shipments remaining about the same and costs for raw materials increasing significantly. USSE shipments for full year 2005 are projected to increase by about 15 percent to approximately 5.8 million net tons due mainly to higher operating levels at the Serbian facilities following the planned mid year startup of a second blast furnace. Shipments for Tubular in the first quarter of 2005 are expected to be at about the same level as in 2004s fourth quarter, while average realized prices are expected to continue to increase. Tubular announced price increases for certain products ranging from $50 to $250 per ton effective in January 2005. Full year shipments are expected to increase to 1.2 million tons. Costs will increase as a result of annual transfer value adjustments for semi finished steel, which comprehend raw material cost escalation, and higher costs for purchased rounds. First quarter 2005 results for Other Businesses will decline compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 due to normal seasonal effects at iron ore operations in Minnesota. In accordance with the previously announced settlement agreement with the City of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana regarding past years Gary Works personal property taxes, a Lake County appeals board is expected to consider a motion to resolve the appeals in accordance with the proposed settlement in early 2005. If the settlement is approved and becomes final as submitted, U. S. Steel would pay $44 million and would recognize a favorable income effect reflecting the reversal of liabilities accrued in excess of the settlement amount. Total costs in 2005 for domestic defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately the same as in 2004. For further information, see Critical Accounting Estimates Pensions and OPEB. This outlook contains forward looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices, tax settlements and employee benefit costs. Some factors, among others, that could affect market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both domestic operations and USSE include global product demand, prices and mix; global and company steel production levels; plant operating performance; the timing and completion of facility projects; natural gas prices and usage; raw materials availability and prices; changes in environmental, tax and other laws; employee strikes; power outages; legal proceedings regarding the proposed Gary Works tax settlement and U.S. and global economic performance and political developments. Domestic steel shipments and prices could be affected by import levels and actions taken by the U.S. Government and its agencies. Political factors in Europe that may affect USSEs results include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures. Future pension costs will be influenced by the market performance of plan assets, laws and regulations regarding discount rates and other calculations, and other economic factors. Future costs for active and retiree medical benefits will be influenced by medical inflation rates, future laws and regulations and retiree participation levels. Accounting Standards In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R) which addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that do not have sufficient equity investment to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. The Interpretation provides guidance related to identifying variable interest entities and determining whether such entities should be consolidated. It also provides guidance related to the initial and subsequent measurement of assets, liabilities and 54 Table of Contents noncontrolling interests in newly consolidated variable interest entities and requires disclosures for both the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and other beneficiaries of the entity. In accordance with FIN 46R, U. S. Steel consolidated the 1314B Partnership as of January 1, 2004. See further discussion in Note 18 to the Financial statements. In May 2004, FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106 2 (FSP FAS 106 2), Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Drug Act) was issued. FSP FAS 106 2 finalizes the accounting for the Drug Act and specifies that the effect of the Federal subsidy on a benefit plans accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) shall be accounted for as an actuarial experience gain. U. S. Steel accounted for the estimated effects of the Drug Act on its APBO as of December 31, 2003. Estimated savings of $450 million were included as an actuarial gain primarily due to changes in participation assumptions caused by the impact of the Drug Act in combination with the cost cap negotiated with the USWA in May 2003 and due to savings from reduced costs for mineworker participants because it is anticipated that the mineworkers union drug program will qualify for the Federal subsidy. Periodic postretirement benefit costs for 2004 were reduced by $60 million due to the estimated impact of these changes. There may also be significant clarifications of the Drug Act in future years that could significantly alter some or all of U. S. Steels assumptions. Furthermore, the participant withdrawal rates could occur at a different pace than has been assumed and the estimated savings could be greater or less than currently identified. No guidance has been issued regarding the effects of the Drug Act on U. S. Steels liabilities under the Coal Act of 1992, which is currently being accounted for under FAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 151 Inventory Costs (FAS 151) which amends ARB 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expenses, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges. In addition, FAS 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of FAS 151 are effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to inventory costs incurred on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect this Statement to have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, (FAS 123R) which is a revision of FAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, (FAS 123) and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. This Statement applies to U. S. Steel for all awards granted on or after July 1, 2005, and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after July 1, 2005, for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for pro forma disclosures. U. S. Steel expects the effect of adopting this Statement on 2005 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $15 million. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 152, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 66 and 67. This Statement amends FASB Statements No. 66 and 67 in association with the issuance of SOP 04 2, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, which applies to all real estate time sharing transactions. This Statement is effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to any real estate time sharing transactions occurring on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not have any real estate time sharing arrangements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. This Statement eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29 and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. This Statement specifies that a nonmonetary 55 Table of Contents exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of this Statement are effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this Statement prospectively to nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring on or after January 1, 2006. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, (FSP FAS 109 1) which states that the FASB staff believes that the qualified production activities deduction provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109 (FAS 109.) This FSP was effective upon issuance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which states that the FASB staff believes that the lack of clarification of certain provisions within the Act and the timing of the enactment necessitate a practical exemption to the FAS 109 requirement to reflect in the period of enactment the effect of a new tax law. Accordingly, an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying FAS 109. See Note 13 to the Financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas, heating oil and nonferrous metals and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. 56 Table of Contents Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pre tax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Decrease of(a) 2004 2003 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Zinc 2.9 7.2 1.2 3.1 Tin NA NA 0.0 0.1 Natural Gas 1.8 4.4 0.9 2.2 (a) The definition of a derivative instrument includes certain fixed price physical commodity contracts. Such instruments are included in the above table. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2004, may cause future pre tax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $4 million in 2004, compared to a gain of $1 million in 2003 and a loss of $6 million in 2002. These gains and losses were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For additional quantitative information relating to derivative commodity instruments, see Note 25 to the Financial Statements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2004 and 2003 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) As of December 31 2004 2003 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFair Value(c) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFairValue(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 8 $ $ 16 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f) $ 1,419 $ 50 $ 1,993 $ 90 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 23 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. (d) For additional information, see Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (e) Includes amounts due within one year. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 17 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels portfolio of long term debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $50 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases 57 Table of Contents in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $14.3 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $47.0 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2004 euro forward rates would result in a $6.1 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 58 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 22,000 domestically and approximately 26,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented 20 Table of Contents by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in February 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Represented employees at USSB are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. All other filings are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the Securities and Exchange Commissions web site, the Internet address of which is www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on revenues and income (loss) of the reportable segments and Other Businesses and on revenues and other income and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 5 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 57 and F 58. 21 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Olympic Laser Processing(b) Van Buren, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Pipe Mills Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar and Delray Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 22 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Granite City, Illinois, which had been subject to a lease through 2012, was purchased in June 2004. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 215 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 23 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) Approximately 4 percent did not specify any damages sought at all, approximately 6 percent alleged damages of $1.0 million or less, another 0.6 percent alleged damages between $2.0 million and $10.0 million, and 0.4 percent alleged damages over $10 million. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 17,100 active claims outstanding. In 2002, U. S. Steel settled 1,135 claims for a total of approximately $700,000, and had a total of 2,662 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and 842 new claims filed. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that 24 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2004, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 20 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 8 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 10 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of sharing in any final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In 1988, U. S. Steel and two other PRPs (Bethlehem Steel Corporation and William Fiore) agreed to the issuance of an administrative order by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to undertake emergency removal work at the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. The cost of such removal, which has been completed, was approximately $4.2 million, of which U. S. Steel paid $3.4 million. EPA indicated that further remediation of this site would be required. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. After a Feasibility Study (FS) by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) and submission of a conceptual remedial action plan in 2001 by U. S. Steel, U. S. Steel submitted a revised conceptual remedial action plan on May 31, 2002. U. S. Steel and PADEP signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible 25 Table of Contents for remediation of this site. On March 18, 2003, PADEP notified U. S. Steel that the public comment period was concluded and the Consent Order and Agreement is final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $7.0 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from EPA requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/FS. The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project based on the groups selection from the range of alternatives presented in the FS is estimated to be $6.4 million. Of that total, U. S. Steels allocable share among the eight PRPs is approximately $1.0 million. In addition, U. S. Steels share of PRP group costs is expected to be less than $100,000 in 2005. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities The following is a discussion of other remediation activities at the major domestic U. S. Steel facilities: There are 39 additional sites related to U. S. Steel where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 4 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 17 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 5 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. Another 4 sites, including the Grand Calumet River remediation at Gary Works, the closure of hazardous waste sites at Gary Works, the claim for investigation, restoration and compensation of injuries to sediments in the east branch of the Grand Calumet River near Gary Works, and corrective action and groundwater investigation at Gary Works, have or are expected to have costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation in excess of $5 million. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. In 1999, U. S. Steel paid civil penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs. In addition, U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with NPDES requirements. The sediment remediation project is an approved final interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works. As of December 31, 2004, project costs have amounted to $51.5 million with another $100,000 presently projected to complete work under the approved sediment remediation plan. A Dredge Completion Report was submitted to EPA on March 29, 2004. EPA responded with written comments on the report. In response, U. S. Steel conducted additional sampling of river sediments in a portion of the dredge project area. Based on the results of the additional sediment sampling, U. S. Steel is considering additional dredging that would include additional substantial bank stabilization measures. Negotiations to have this additional work considered as a final measure are proceeding. The additional dredging and bank stabilization is anticipated to cost approximately $9.0 million. At the conclusion of the dredge project, the Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) will remain available and could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective 26 Table of Contents measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to the Administrative Order on Consent for corrective action. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $4.9 million. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River, costs of which are estimated to be $2.4 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property. The D2 disposal site and a nearby refuse area will be closed collectively. Total costs to close D2, D5, T2 and the refuse area are estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The public trustees completed a preassessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have determined to perform a Natural Resources Damages Assessment. U. S. Steel was identified as a PRP along with 15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. U. S. Steel and eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The trustees notified the public of their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. In 2000, the trustees concluded their assessment of sediment injuries, which included a technical review of environmental conditions. The PRP joint defense group has proposed terms for the settlement of this claim, which have been endorsed by representatives of the trustees and EPA to be included in a consent decree that U. S. Steel expects will resolve this claim. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs, and obtained an 8 acre parcel of land that has been transferred to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for addition to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Park owned by the National Park Service. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement has been executed by the parties and lodged with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana on August 20, 2004. Concurrent with this lodging of the Consent Decree, the United States of America filed its complaint titled United States of America v. Atlantic Richfield, et. al. asserting liability for its claim against the settling parties. In December 2004, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) filed a motion with the court that requested approval and entry of the consent decree. On October 23, 1998, a final Administrative Order on Consent was issued by EPA addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. The Current Conditions Report, U. S. Steels first deliverable, was submitted to EPA in January 1997 and was approved by EPA in 1998. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans and a self implementing interim measure have been submitted to EPA for approval. Two other self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $14.9 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations and the submitted work plans is estimated to be $6.4 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to present. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $424,000. 27 Table of Contents Fairfield Works In December 1995, U. S. Steel reached an agreement in principle with EPA and DOJ with respect to alleged RCRA violations at Fairfield Works. A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and DOJ and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved for the site on September 16, 2002. Field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel is currently preparing a Phase I RFI Report for submission to ADEM in early 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $414,000. In addition, U. S. Steel is developing a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. Lower Opossum Creek is approximately 4.5 miles of the Opossum Creek Area of Concern. U. S. Steel is investigating Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the investigation costs. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of this investigation and costs to implement sediment remediation to be $823,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $478,000. Lorain Pipe Mills In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe), was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. USS/Kobe and EPA commenced settlement negotiations in July 1999. In August 1999, the steelmaking and bar producing operations of USS/Kobe were combined with companies controlled by Blackstone Capital Partners II to form Republic. The tubular operations of USS/Kobe were transferred to a newly formed entity, Lorain Tubular Company, LLC (Lorain Tubular), which operated as a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe until December 31, 1999, when U. S. Steel purchased all of Kobes interest in Lorain Tubular. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Pipe Mills. U. S. Steel and EPA have agreed upon terms of settlement that include a cash penalty for U. S. Steel of $100,000 plus a supplemental environmental project to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Negotiations on the final terms and conditions of the consent decree are ongoing. Most of the matters raised by EPA relate to Republics facilities; however, air discharges from U. S. Steels No. 3 seamless pipe mill were also cited and U. S. Steel will be responsible for conducting a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. U. S. Steel will be responsible only for matters relating to its facilities. Issues related to Republic have been resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works U. S. Steel has agreed to the terms of a consent decree that will include the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the BOP; a civil penalty of $950,000; and a supplemental environmental project at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Great Lakes Works continues to identify and evaluate potential operating practices and facility improvements to reduce emissions. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $12.9 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through December 31, 2004. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $363,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. 28 Table of Contents Geneva Works In November 1989, the Utah Department of Environmental Quality issued a permit to U. S. Steel for the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments including facility wide corrective action at U. S. Steels former Geneva Works. The permit was administratively extended until May 14, 2004, when it was reissued to U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company (Geneva), the site owner. The permit allocates responsibility for corrective action between U. S. Steel and Geneva. U. S. Steel has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations on some areas of the facility for which U. S. Steel has responsibility under the permit. The remaining costs to prepare these work plans, implement field investigations and continue post closure care on the three hazardous waste impoundments are estimated to be approximately $5.6 million. On June 2, 2004, Geneva filed a motion in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Utah to approve the amendment and assumption of the 1987 Asset Sales Agreement, the acceptance of the permit and the retention of a remediation contractor. On July 7, 2004, the motion was heard and granted providing for Genevas continuing involvement and funding of the remediation required by the permit. Other In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The site was owned by Armour Agriculture Chemical Company (now named Viad) from 1912 to 1968. U. S. Steel owned the site from 1968 to 1986 and sold the site to LaRoche Industries in 1986. The agreed order allocated responsibility for assessment and cleanup costs as follows: Viad 48 percent, U. S. Steel 26 percent and LaRoche 26 percent; and LaRoche was appointed to be the lead party responsible for conducting the cleanup. In March 2001, U. S. Steel was notified that LaRoche had filed for protection under bankruptcy law. On August 23, 2001, the allocation of responsibility for this site assessment and cleanup and the cost allocation was approved by the bankruptcy court in the LaRoche bankruptcy. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $801,000, based on the allocation factor of 26 percent. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas. The site is a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. U. S. Steel agreed in a Consent Order before KDHE, signed April 7, 2003, with KDHE and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Under that agreement, U. S. Steel and SSB each bear a 50 percent share of the costs of those responsibilities. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.2 million. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2005, are as follows: John J. Connelly 58 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 56 Executive Vice PresidentOperations Gretchen R. Haggerty 49 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer Christopher J. Navetta 56 President, U. S. Steel Kosice, s.r.o. Dan D. Sandman 56 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 55 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 57 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 50 President and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 55. As of January 31, 2005, there were 31,747 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2004, no unregistered shares were issued. 30 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2004(a) 2003 2002 2001(b) 2000(b) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues and other income(c)(d) $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 $ 6,375 $ 6,132 Income (loss) from operations(e) 1,580 (730 ) 128 (405 ) 104 Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) 1,077 (406 ) 61 (218 ) (21 ) Net income (loss)(e) $ 1,091 $ (463 ) $ 61 $ (218 ) $ (21 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(f) basic $ 9.47 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.37 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Net income (loss)(f) basic 9.60 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.48 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Dividends paid(g) .20 .20 .20 .55 1.00 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 10,956 $ 7,837 $ 7,977 $ 8,337 $ 8,711 Capitalization: Notes payable $ $ $ $ $ 70 Long term debt including amount due within one year(h) 1,371 1,933 1,434 1,466 2,375 Preferred stock of subsidiary(i) 66 Trust Preferred Securities(i) 183 Stockholders equity 3,970 1,093 2,027 2,506 1,919 Total capitalization $ 5,341 $ 3,026 $ 3,461 $ 3,972 $ 4,613 (a) Includes minor revisions from the unaudited results reported on Form 8 K filed on January 25, 2005. Unaudited results for the year ended December 31, 2004, were income from operations of $1,584 million and net income of $1,085 million, or $8.44 per diluted share. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon). On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2000, and the income statement for each of the two years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, represent a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. Stockholders equity as of December 31, 2000, represents the combined net assets of the businesses comprising U. S. Steel (Marathons net investment in U. S. Steel). (c) Consists of revenues, dividend and investee income (loss), net gains on disposal of assets and other income (loss). (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in revenues and other income from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic, which was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. These were partially offset by reduced domestic tubular and plate shipment volumes. The increase in revenues and other income from 2000 to 2001 was mainly due to the inclusion of USSK revenues for the full year, the inclusion of Transtar revenues following the reorganization and higher income from investees relating to the gain on the Transtar reorganization; partially offset by lower domestic sheet, tubular and plate shipment volumes, lower average realized prices for domestic sheet products, and the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. The decrease from 2000 to 2001 mainly resulted from lower prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; higher employee benefit costs; lower results from coal, iron ore pellet and tin operations; and increased asset impairments; partially offset by a full year of income from USSK and the gain on the Transtar reorganization. (f) See Note 11 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (g) For years 2000 and 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (h) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease in long term debt from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to transactions related to the separation from Marathon. (i) At the separation from Marathon, these securities were either redeemed for cash by Marathon, or retained by Marathon and redeemed or repaid in January 2002. 31 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel is the second largest integrated steel producer in North America and has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume; selling prices; production costs; and value added product mix, since these products typically provide a higher profit margin than more commodity type steel products. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on its ability to implement the strategy described below. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, and U. S. Steel in particular, include the sustainability of higher steel prices; the steep increase in the cost of purchased raw materials; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has led to much of the recent volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States increased significantly during 2004 and could continue to increase depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, and consumption in the United States versus other regions. Strategy U. S. Steels business strategy is to continue to grow its investment in high end finishing assets, expand its global business platform, reduce its costs and become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets where management believes that U. S. Steels leadership position, production and processing capabilities and technical service provide a competitive advantage. These products include advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets for the construction industry, improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods. U. S. Steel continues to enhance its value added businesses through the upgrading and modernization of its key production facilities. U. S. Steel continues to be interested in participating in further consolidation of the North American steel industry if it would be beneficial to customers, shareholders, creditors and employees. U. S. Steel continues to explore additional opportunities for steel and raw materials investments in Europe. U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading European steel producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing 32 Table of Contents European markets, to grow its customer base in Europe by providing reliable delivery of high quality steel and to invest in value added facilities, including a planned automotive hot dip galvanizing line, to improve USSEs product mix. Expansion opportunities in Europe and North America would be attractive to U. S. Steel. South America, China and India are also possible areas of interest. In 2004, U. S. Steel concentrated on successfully integrating the businesses acquired in 2003 (discussed below), improving its balance sheet, increasing liquidity and continuing to strengthen its core steel businesses in order to be better positioned for further expansion and continued improvements to its existing facilities. An equity offering of 8 million common shares was completed in March 2004 for net proceeds of $294 million, which were primarily used to redeem certain senior notes. In April 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of its 10 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of its 9 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. In addition, USSK retired $281 million of long term debt in 2004. In total these debt repayments reduced annualized interest expense by approximately $50 million. Also during 2004, U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan and $30 million to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In October 2004, U. S. Steels $600 million revolving credit facility was amended and restated to: 1) extend the maturity to October 2009, 2) increase the borrowing base, 3) reduce the pricing for both borrowings and undrawn commitments, and 4) limit the application of many of the restrictive covenants. In February 2004, U. S. Steel continued to divest its non core assets when it sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. In 2003, U. S. Steel engaged in several significant transactions aimed at strengthening its core steel businesses. On May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy substantially all of the integrated steelmaking assets of National Steel Corporation (National). See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. The facilities that were acquired included two integrated steel plants, Granite City Works in Granite City, Illinois, and Great Lakes Works in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan; the Midwest Plant in Portage, Indiana; ProCoil Company LLC (ProCoil) in Canton, Michigan; a 50 percent equity interest in Double G Coatings Company, L.P. (Double G) near Jackson, Mississippi; the iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota (Keetac); and the Delray Connecting Railroad Company (Delray) in Michigan. This acquisition increased annual domestic raw steel production capability by 6.6 million net tons (tons) to 19.4 million tons. U. S. Steel and the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) reached a five year labor agreement that was effective upon the completion of the National acquisition and which covers both U. S. Steel and former National employees. This agreement allowed for a workforce restructuring aimed at achieving a 20 percent productivity improvement, expanded profit based variable compensation, provided cost sharing mechanisms for employee and retiree health care expenses, and provided a joint mechanism to consider further acquisitions of steel and steel related assets in North America. On September 12, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy Sartid a.d. (In Bankruptcy), an integrated steel company located in the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Sartid). U. S. Steel is operating these facilities as USSB. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. This acquisition increased annual European raw steel production capability by 2.4 million tons to 7.4 million tons. On June 30, 2003, U. S. Steel completed the sale of its coal mines and related assets (Mining Sale). As a result, U. S. Steel no longer mines any coal. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale. In a non monetary transaction in November 2003, U. S. Steels plate mill at Gary Works was exchanged for a pickling line located in East Chicago, Indiana. This was U. S. Steels only plate mill; however, U. S. Steel still produces plate in coil on its hot strip mills at Gary Works and at its European operations. 33 Table of Contents In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. Straightline Source (Straightline) was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2005. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total $230 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets for 2005 would have decreased or increased, respectively, the expected net periodic pension cost by $34 million. U. S. Steel determines the discount rate applied to pension and OPEB obligations at each year end or required interim period based on a number of external barometers used to measure the status of high quality bond rates consistent with the expected payout period of the obligations. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 6.0 percent to 5.75 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2005 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. Total OPEB costs in 2005 are expected to be approximately $109 million. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, a 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased pension and OPEB liabilities by $340 million and $110 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased pension and OPEB liabilities by $370 million and $120 million, respectively. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on 34 Table of Contents the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most salaried benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2005. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the escalation trend would have increased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $8 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the escalation trend would have decreased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $7 million in 2005. Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. The amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2004, was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of these net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004 and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2004, total accruals for environmental remediation were $123 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. 35 Table of Contents Segments During 2004, U. S. Steel had four reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE), Tubular Products (Tubular) and Real Estate. As of January 1, 2004, the residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. The application of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, resulted in U. S. Steel consolidating the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. (1314B Partnership) effective January 1, 2004. The results of the 1314B Partnership, which are included in the Flat rolled segment, were previously accounted for under the equity method. For further information, see Notes 4 and 18 to the Financial Statements. The National acquisition changed the composition of the Flat rolled segment and Other Businesses as described below, but did not result in a change in U. S. Steels reportable segments. Effective with the Mining Sale, Other Businesses are no longer involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. Effective with the acquisition of Sartid, the USSK segment was renamed USSE and includes the operating results of both USSK and USSB. Effective with the third quarter of 2003, the composition of the Flat rolled segment was changed to include the results of the coke operations at Clairton Works and Gary Works, which were previously reported in Other Businesses. This change reflected U. S. Steels management consolidations. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2003, benefit expenses for current retirees are separately identified and are no longer allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. These expenses include pensions, health care, life insurance and any profit based expenses for the benefit of retirees. Benefit expenses for active employees continue to be allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. Furthermore, U. S. Steel changed its methodology for allocating certain corporate costs. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for details. These changes were made so that operating results of U. S. Steels reportable segments will better reflect their current contribution and so that U. S. Steels segment results will be more comparable to those of its primary competitors who do not have significant fixed retiree obligations. Comparative results have been conformed to the current year presentation. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the service centers, conversion, transportation (including automotive), containers, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G, which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with Sartid. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service centers, appliance, containers, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed and developed for sale or lease. In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. In February 2004, U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. Prior to the disposition of these assets, results they generated were reported in the Real Estate segment. The Straightline segment included the operating results of U. S. Steels technology enabled distribution business that was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. 36 Table of Contents All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services, and engineering and consulting services. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of Keetac and Delray, which were acquired from National. Prior to the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer value for rounds supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and the transfer value of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs. Income The principal drivers of U. S. Steels financial results are price, volume, cost and product mix. To the extent that these factors are affected by industry conditions and the overall economic climate, revenues and income will reflect such conditions. Revenues and other income (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003(a) 2002 Revenues by product: Flat rolled steel products $ 11,549 $ 7,372 $ 5,115 Tubular 1,042 626 555 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore)(b) 705 419 513 Other(c) 673 911 766 Income (loss) from investees 57 (11 ) 33 Net gains on disposal of assets 57 85 29 Other income 25 56 43 Total revenues and other income $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Revenue from the sale of coal ceased with the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003. Includes revenue from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. Included revenue from steel mill products distribution prior to January 1, 2004, when the residual results of Straightline were included in Flat rolled; and revenue from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Total revenues and other income in 2004 increased $4,650 million compared to 2003. The increases primarily reflected higher average realized prices for Flat rolled, Tubular and European operations; higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet, tin and tubular products; higher shipment volumes for USSE; and higher revenues on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill and the absence of revenues from coal sales in 2004 due to the Mining Sale. Revenues for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues and other income in 2004 included a $43 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $36 million and other income of $7 million. Revenues and other income in 2003 included a net gain on disposal of assets of $55 million resulting from the timber contribution to the pension plan and a $47 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $13 million and other income of $34 million. Total revenues and other income in 2003 increased $2,404 million compared to 2002. The increase primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the Mining Sale, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. 37 Table of Contents Income from investees in 2002 included $39 million of insurance recoveries related to a 2001 fire at USS POSCO, other income included $38 million from a Federal excise tax refund, and gains on disposal of assets included $20 million from the sale of U. S. Steels shares of VSZ a.s. (VSZ). Profit based union payments Results for 2004 included costs of $241 million related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. Segment results for 2004 included $131 million of these costs and the balance was included in retiree benefit expenses. All of these costs are included in cost of revenues. Payment amounts per the agreement are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) to be contributed to a trust to assist National retirees with healthcare costs based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item are calculated in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $254 million in 2004, compared to $556 million in 2003 and a credit of $3 million in 2002. The costs in 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The credit in 2002 included $100 million of settlement losses. Excluding these one time charges, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. Excluding settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase of $212 million in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to a lower return on assets, a decline in the expected return on assets assumption and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $106 million in 2004, compared to $241 million in 2003 and $150 million in 2002. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. The increase in 2003 compared to 2002, excluding the curtailment charges, was primarily due to the addition of liabilities for National employees, changes in rate of retirement assumptions and a lower discount rate. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $18 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003 and 2002. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase in 2004 was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights and lower OPEB costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $673 million in 2003, compared to $418 million in 2002. The increase in 2003 was primarily due to higher pension and OPEB costs, increased compensation expense related 38 Table of Contents to stock appreciation rights, and higher expenses at USSE due mainly to unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange rate differences and increased business development expenses. These were partially offset by the favorable effect in 2003 of the absence of the impairment of retiree medical cost reimbursements receivable from Republic, which occurred in 2002. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for further details. Income (loss) from operations: (a) (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Flat rolled $ 1,185 $ (54 ) $ (84 ) USSE 394 203 110 Tubular 197 (25 ) (6 ) Real Estate 30 50 50 Straightline (70 ) (45 ) Total income (loss) from reportable segments 1,806 104 25 Other Businesses 28 (35 ) 33 Segment Income (Loss) from operations 1,834 69 58 Retiree benefit (expenses) credits (257 ) (107 ) 79 Other items not allocated to segments: Workforce reduction charges (including pension settlements) (17 ) (621 ) (100 ) Stock appreciation rights (23 ) (75 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Asset impairments (57 ) (14 ) Litigation items (25 ) 9 Costs related to Fairless shutdown (1 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire 39 Federal excise tax refund 38 Gain on VSZ share sale 20 Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,580 $ (730 ) $ 128 (a) See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices, which increased by $152 per ton; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. Flat rolled recorded a segment loss of $54 million in 2003, compared to a loss of $84 million in 2002. The decreased loss was primarily due to higher average realized prices and favorable effects resulting from ongoing cost improvement programs, the National acquisition and workforce reductions. These were partially offset by increased prices for raw materials, natural gas and utilities; higher employee benefit costs; increased costs for repair outages; and costs associated with the August 2003 power outage, which interrupted operations in Michigan and Ohio. 39 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income for 2004 was $394 million, compared to income of $203 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, which increased by $171 per ton, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. USSE segment income for the full year 2003 reflected an increase of $93 million from 2002. The improvement was primarily due to higher average realized prices as a result of favorable exchange rate effects and price increases, as well as higher shipment volumes. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, USSE shipments included those realized under toll conversion agreements with Sartid and, effective September 12, 2003, included all shipments from USSB (formerly Sartid). These improvements were partially offset by the unfavorable effect on costs of changes in foreign exchange rates; costs associated with the conversion and facility management agreements with Sartid, which were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition; and post acquisition operating losses at USSB including effects from a 38 day strike. Segment results for Tubular Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices, which increased by $233 per ton. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of tube rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which are transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. The segment loss for Tubular in 2003 reflected a decline of $19 million from 2002 primarily due to lower average realized prices for seamless products and higher natural gas prices, partially offset by increased shipment volumes for seamless products and income from the sale of Delta Tubular Processing. Segment results for Real Estate Real Estate segment income for 2004 was $30 million, down $20 million from 2003. The decrease primarily reflected lower mineral interest royalties as a result of the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Real Estate segment income for 2003 and 2002 was $50 million. Increased coal seam gas royalties were offset by lower real estate sales. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses recorded income of $28 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $35 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services. The loss for Other Businesses for 2003 reflected a decline of $68 million from income of $33 million in 2002. The decrease mainly reflected lower results from iron ore pellet operations due primarily to reduced shipment volumes, and lower results for coal operations and transportation services. Items not allocated to segments: Stock appreciation rights resulted in $23 million and $75 million of compensation expense accrued in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued over the last ten years and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. No stock appreciation rights were issued in 2004. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees, while the $100 million in 2002 reflected pension settlement losses related to retirements of personnel covered under the 40 Table of Contents non union qualified pension plan and the non qualified defined benefit pension plan. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels ongoing operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Asset impairments in 2002 were for charges related to reserves established against receivables exposure from financially distressed steel companies, primarily Republic. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of Real Estates remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain of Real Estates coal seam gas interests and from the Mining Sale. Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire represent U. S. Steels share of insurance recoveries in excess of facility repair costs for the cold reduction mill fire at USS POSCO, which occurred in May 2001. The final payment was received in December 2002. Federal excise tax refund represents the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales during the period 1993 through 1999. During 2002, U. S. Steel received cash and recognized pre tax income of $38 million, which is included in other income on the statement of operations. Of the $38 million received, $11 million represented interest. Net interest and other financial costs Net interest and other financial costs were $119 million in 2004, compared to $130 million in 2003 and $115 million in 2002. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. The decrease in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected lower interest on tax related liabilities, partially due to the more favorable 2004 adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes, more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and increased interest income. These favorable items were partially offset by a $33 million charge resulting from the early redemption of certain senior debt in April 2004. The $15 million increase from 2002 to 2003 was primarily due to interest on the new 9 3/4% senior notes, partially offset by more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and lower interest on tax related liabilities resulting from the favorable $17 million adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of both, and resulted in net gains of $32 million, $20 million and $16 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2004 was $351 million, compared to benefits in 2003 and 2002 of $454 million and $48 million, respectively. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefits in 2003 and 2002 included favorable effects relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million and $8 million, respectively. The change to a tax provision in 2004 as compared to tax benefits in the previous two years was primarily the result of pre tax income from domestic 41 Table of Contents operations recorded in 2004 compared to domestic pre tax losses in 2003 and 2002. The increase in the tax benefit in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to increased pre tax losses for domestic operations, including increased benefit costs. The Slovak Income Tax Act provides an income tax credit, which is available to USSK if certain conditions are met. In order to claim the tax credit in any year, 60 percent of USSKs sales must be export sales and USSK must reinvest the tax credits claimed in qualifying capital expenditures during the five years following the year in which the tax credit is claimed. The provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 100 percent of USSKs tax liability for years 2000 through 2004 and 50 percent of the current statutory rate of 19 percent for the years 2005 through 2009. Management believes that USSK fulfilled all of the necessary conditions for claiming the tax credit for the years for which it was claimed and anticipates meeting such requirements in 2005. As a result of claiming these tax credits and managements intent to reinvest earnings in foreign operations, virtually no income tax provision, except for the two $16 million tax payments discussed below, is recorded for USSK income. In connection with Slovakia joining the European Union (EU), the total tax credit granted to USSK for the period 2000 through 2009 was limited to $430 million, and USSK agreed to make tax payments of $16 million in 2004 and 2005, the first of which was paid in June 2004. Also, additional conditions for claiming the tax credit were established. These new conditions limit USSKs annual production of flat rolled product and its sales of all products into the 15 countries that were members of the EU prior to Slovakia and 9 other nations joining the EU in May 2004. Management believes the future impact of these changes will be minimal because Slovak tax laws have been modified and tax rates have been reduced since the acquisition of USSK; and the production and sales limits, which provide for annual increases through 2009, are not materially burdensome. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004, and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax liabilities of $314 million and $61 million, respectively. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2004, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the lack of historical information and the losses experienced in the months immediately following the acquisition of USSB. If USSB continues to generate income, the valuation allowance of $17 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2004 was $1,091 million, compared with a net loss of $463 million in 2003 and net income of $61 million in 2002. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Operations Flat rolled shipments were 15.6 million tons in 2004, 13.5 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from the facilities acquired from National, and 9.9 million tons in 2002. Tubular shipments were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 0.9 million tons in 2003 and 0.8 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 4 percent of U. S. Steels domestic shipments in 2004 and 2003, and 5 percent in 2002. USSE shipments were 5.0 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from USSB, and 4.0 million tons in 2002. 42 Table of Contents The acquisition of the assets of National on May 20, 2003, increased U. S. Steels stated annual raw steel production capability for domestic operations from 12.8 millions tons to 19.4 million tons. Raw steel production was 17.3 million tons in 2004, compared with 14.9 million tons in 2003, including production from the National assets following the acquisition, and 11.5 million tons in 2002. Raw steel production averaged 89 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 88 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the National capability on a prorata basis, and 90 percent of capability in 2002. All steel produced in U. S. Steels domestic facilities is continuous cast. Domestic capability utilization in 2004 and 2003 was reduced by scheduled blast furnace repair outages, which occurred in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2004 and in the second quarter of 2003. In 2002, domestic raw steel production was affected by poor market conditions during the first quarter, the acceleration into the fourth quarter of some blast furnace repair work that was originally scheduled to occur in 2003 and the high level of imports. The acquisition of Sartid on September 12, 2003, increased USSEs stated annual raw steel production capability from 5.0 million tons to 7.4 million tons. USSE raw steel production was 5.7 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including production from the Sartid assets following the acquisition, and 4.4 million tons in 2002. USSEs raw steel production averaged 77 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 84 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the Sartid capability on a prorata basis, and 88 percent in 2002. USSEs capability utilization in 2004 was reduced by the inclusion of USSB, as well as by operational difficulties with a blast furnace in Slovakia during the first quarter. USSEs capability utilization in 2003 was reduced by a blast furnace outage at USSK and the partial period inclusion of USSB as only about a third of its annual production capability was operational at the time of its acquisition in September 2003. USSBs capability utilization averaged 48 percent in 2004 and 20 percent in 2003 following the acquisition. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2004 increased $1,137 million from year end 2003 primarily due to increased cash balances and higher trade receivables. The increase in cash was mainly due to improved operations, $294 million of net proceeds from an equity offering and proceeds from the disposal of assets, partially offset by capital spending, the voluntary funding of benefit plans, the repayment of USSK debt and the redemption of certain senior notes. The increase in trade receivables primarily resulted from higher revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004, compared to last years fourth quarter, resulting mainly from higher steel prices. FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability is no longer required for this plan. Consequently, required entries were recorded that increased prepaid pensions by $2.48 billion, decreased the intangible pension asset by $440 million and resulted in a net credit to equity of $1.45 billion, which decreased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2004 decreased $325 million from year end 2003 and long term deferred income tax liabilities increased $592 million, primarily due to the elimination of federal and state deferred tax assets that were established in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2004 increased $404 million from year end 2003 mainly due to increases in accounts payable and payroll and benefits payable. The increase in accounts payable resulted mainly from higher raw materials costs and increased purchases of capital assets in late 2004 compared to the same period last year. The increase in payroll and benefits payable was primarily due to liabilities resulting from the profit based union payments that were previously discussed. Long term debt at December 31, 2004, was $1,363 million, $527 million lower than year end 2003. The decrease in debt was primarily due to the retirement of $281 million of USSK long term debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. 43 Table of Contents Employee benefits at December 31, 2004, decreased $257 million from year end 2003. Employee benefits at year end 2003 included the net pension liability related to an additional minimum liability adjustment for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan. In addition, OPEB liabilities decreased primarily because the sum of retiree medical benefit payments made in cash and a $30 million voluntary cash contribution to a trust exceeded the amount of retiree medical expense booked in 2004. Retiree medical expense was $60 million lower in 2004 as compared to 2003 due to recognition of the estimated effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and a cost cap negotiated with the USWA in 2003. For further information, see Estimated Future Benefit Payments in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Additional paid in capital increased by $354 million from the prior year end primarily reflecting U. S. Steels equity offering that was completed in March 2004. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities was $1,400 million in 2004, compared with $577 million in 2003. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items was partially offset by increased working capital requirements. Cash from operating activities in 2004 was reduced by $295 million of voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan, $186 million of OPEB payments, $50 million of payments to a multiemployer pension plan, $44 million of payments to pension plans not funded by trusts and $30 million of contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In 2003, OPEB payments were primarily funded by trusts. The $75 million in voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan in 2003 consisted of timber cutting rights valued at $59 million and $16 million of cash. Further contributions totaling $15 million were made to other smaller pension plans in 2003. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2006. Net cash provided from operating activities of $577 million in 2003 reflected an improvement of $298 million compared to 2002. The improvement resulted mainly from lower working capital requirements. Capital expenditures in 2004 were $579 million, compared with $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Major domestic projects in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills. Major projects at USSE in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $258 million, including $97 million for USSE. Major projects in 2002 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills and various projects at USSK, including continued work on the new tinning and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, completion of the scrap management and hot strip mill reheat furnace upgrade projects, commencement of work on a new dynamo line and installation of a vacuum degassing facility. U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2004, totaled $98 million compared with $23 million at December 31, 2003. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2004, was $257 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $135 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2004, leaving a balance of $22 million under this commitment. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements for further information. 44 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2005 are expected to be approximately $755 million, reflecting approximately $475 million for domestic operations and $280 million for European facilities. Domestic projects include the rebuild of the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, acquisition of mobile and mining equipment and coke oven thru wall repairs at Clairton Works and Gary Works. Projects in Slovakia include initial spending for a new automotive galvanizing line; and continuing work on air emissions reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include completion of the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace and steel production improvements. The preceding statement concerning expected 2005 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisitions in 2003 consisted of $839 million for the National assets, $29 million for USSB and a $37 million cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. The $38 million in 2002 was a cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. Disposal of assets in 2004 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of substantially all of the Real Estate segments remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Disposal of assets in 2003 consisted mainly of proceeds from the Mining Sale, cash collections on notes received in prior years asset disposals, the sale of the former National headquarters building and the sale of U. S. Steels interest in Delta Tubular Processing. Disposal of assets in 2002 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of U. S. Steels investment in stock of VSZ. Restricted cash Net deposits of $32 million in 2003 and $67 million in 2002 were mainly used to collateralize letters of credit to meet financial assurance requirements. Issuance of long term debt in 2003 resulted from the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May, net of deferred financing costs associated with the notes and the inventory facility. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2004 mainly reflected the retirement of long term USSK debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2003 and 2002 was mainly the USSK debt. Preferred stock issued in 2003 reflected net proceeds from the offering of 5 million shares of Series B Preferred. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004. The remaining amount mainly reflected proceeds from stock sales through the exercise of options. The 2003 amount primarily reflected sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. The 2002 amount primarily reflected $192 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in May 2002, as well as sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Dividends paid in 2004 were $39 million, compared with $35 million in 2003 and $19 million in 2002. Payments in all three periods reflected the quarterly dividend rate of five cents per common share. Dividends paid in 2004 also reflected a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share for the Series B Preferred. Dividends paid in 2003 also included an initial dividend of $1.206 per share for the Series B Preferred, which was paid on June 15, 2003, and a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share thereafter. The quarterly dividend rate per common share was increased to eight cents effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Debt and Convertible Preferred Shares Ratings On November 5, 2004, Moodys Investors Service upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating two steps, from B1 to Ba2. On November 12, 2004, Standard & Poors Ratings Services upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating from BB to BB and raised the preferred stock rating from B to B. 45 Table of Contents Liquidity In November 2001, U. S. Steel entered into a five year Receivables Purchase Agreement with financial institutions. U. S. Steel established a wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), which is a consolidated special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity that acquires, on a daily basis, eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries. USSR can sell an undivided interest in these receivables to certain commercial paper conduits. USSR pays the conduits a discount based on the conduits borrowing costs plus incremental fees, certain of which are determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, which increased fundings under the facility to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. Eligible receivables exclude certain obligors, amounts in excess of defined percentages for certain obligors, and amounts past due or due beyond a defined period. In addition, eligible receivables are calculated by deducting certain reserves, which are based on various determinants including concentration, dilution and loss percentages, as well as the credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had more than $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. While the term of the Receivables Purchase Agreement is five years, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed below and other debt obligations, any failure of USSR to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables, and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 23, 2005. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a four year revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by all domestic inventory and related assets (Inventory Facility), including receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The Inventory Facility contained a number of covenants that may have limited U. S. Steels ability to incur debt, make capital expenditures, sell assets, incur liens and make dividend and other restricted payments. The Inventory Facility also included a fixed charge coverage ratio test, which had to be met if availability was less than $100 million. In October 2004, the Inventory Facility was amended and restated to extend its maturity until October 2009, increase advance rates on semi finished and raw materials, reduce certain reserves, and modify pricing terms. In addition, many of the restrictive covenants apply now only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had in excess of $600 million of eligible inventory under the Inventory Facility, and utilized $6 million for letters of credit, reducing availability to $594 million. At December 31, 2004, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. In the third quarter of 2004, USSB entered into a new EUR 9.3 million (which approximated $12.7 million at December 31, 2004) committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility has a term of one year, and can be extended by mutual agreement of the parties for up to two additional one year periods. At December 31, 2004, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes), and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. 46 Table of Contents The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.2 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $118 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2004, an increase of $5 million during 2004, and expects to commit approximately $10 million to $20 million more during 2005. U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2004, in the amount of $42 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as obligations relating to Industrial Development and Environmental Improvement Bonds and Notes in the amount of $472 million and certain lease obligations totaling $190 million that were assumed by U. S. Steel from Marathon, may be declared immediately due and payable. 47 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2004: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents (a) $ 1,021 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSE credit facilities 69 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,184 (a) Excludes $16 million of cash, which resulted from the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership, because it is not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity at December 31, 2004 increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2004, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,373 $ 8 $ 33 $ 379 $ 953 Operating leases(b) 460 118 169 57 116 Capital commitments(c) 355 59 39 257 USSB Commitments 22 3 19 Environmental commitments(c) 123 21 102 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e ) 26 55 29 (e ) Other postretirement benefits (f ) 243 545 475 (f ) Total contractual obligations (g ) $ 475 $ 844 $ 959 (g ) (a) See Note 17 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2005 through 2009 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to 48 Table of Contents pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets which were managed by the Real Estate segment, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit plan in 2005. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $12 million to plans not funded by trusts in 2005. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2004, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 93 $ 65 $ 20 $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 21 4 17 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 28 28 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 25 8 1 14 2 Contingent liabilities: Marathon obligations(a)(d) 42 15 19 8 Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 1,627 1,001 383 152 91 Total commercial commitments $ 1,986 $ 1,093 $ 423 $ 174 $ 296 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of substrate and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In 2003, U. S. Steel entered into two off balance sheet arrangements for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. These operating lease arrangements are with special purpose trusts (SPTs). The SPTs financed the construction of the facilities and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficial owners of the SPTs. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of these entities. There are no guarantees of the obligations of these SPTs by U. S. Steel, and U. S. Steel would incur no significant penalties that would result in the reasonable assurance of continuation of the leases. U. S. Steels transactions with the SPTs are limited to the operating lease agreements, and the associated 49 Table of Contents lease expense is included in cost of revenues on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate these SPTs because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has unconditional supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 4 and Note 18 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 15 year agreement for the supply of electric power at Gary Works in Indiana, expiring in 2011. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of a 161 megawatt steam extraction turbine for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. Gary Works employees operate and maintain the facility and Gary Works supplies the steam for the turbine. This power is the first dispatched source of power to Gary Works. There are no take or pay obligations associated with this requirements contract and U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement results in an increase of approximately $60 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required 50 Table of Contents to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. 51 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Domestic: Capital $ 24 $ 8 $ 4 Compliance Operating & maintenance 241 206 171 Remediation(b) 18 38 36 Total Domestic $ 283 $ 252 $ 211 USSE: Capital $ 97 $ 22 $ 10 Compliance Operating & maintenance 8 10 8 Remediation(b) 3 3 1 Total USSE $ 108 $ 35 $ 19 Total U. S. Steel $ 391 $ 287 $ 230 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 21 percent of total capital expenditures in 2004, 10 percent in 2003 and 5 percent in 2002. Compliance expenditures represented 2 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2004, and 3 percent in 2003 and 2002. Remediation spending during 2002 to 2004 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2004, U. S. Steel accrued $34 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2004, was $123 million. Environmental spending in 2004 totaled $23 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2005. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $128 million in 2005, $69 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2005 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2006, including $90 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured electric cable; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. 53 Table of Contents Outlook for 2005 First quarter 2005 average realized prices for Flat rolled are expected to remain in line with or increase slightly from fourth quarter levels; however, results will be negatively affected by higher costs for raw materials, as well as slightly lower shipments. For full year 2005, Flat rolled shipments are expected to be about 15.4 million tons, reflecting the planned outage at the Gary No. 13 blast furnace. For USSE, first quarter average realized prices are expected to be moderately higher than in the fourth quarter of 2004, with shipments remaining about the same and costs for raw materials increasing significantly. USSE shipments for full year 2005 are projected to increase by about 15 percent to approximately 5.8 million net tons due mainly to higher operating levels at the Serbian facilities following the planned mid year startup of a second blast furnace. Shipments for Tubular in the first quarter of 2005 are expected to be at about the same level as in 2004s fourth quarter, while average realized prices are expected to continue to increase. Tubular announced price increases for certain products ranging from $50 to $250 per ton effective in January 2005. Full year shipments are expected to increase to 1.2 million tons. Costs will increase as a result of annual transfer value adjustments for semi finished steel, which comprehend raw material cost escalation, and higher costs for purchased rounds. First quarter 2005 results for Other Businesses will decline compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 due to normal seasonal effects at iron ore operations in Minnesota. In accordance with the previously announced settlement agreement with the City of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana regarding past years Gary Works personal property taxes, a Lake County appeals board is expected to consider a motion to resolve the appeals in accordance with the proposed settlement in early 2005. If the settlement is approved and becomes final as submitted, U. S. Steel would pay $44 million and would recognize a favorable income effect reflecting the reversal of liabilities accrued in excess of the settlement amount. Total costs in 2005 for domestic defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately the same as in 2004. For further information, see Critical Accounting Estimates Pensions and OPEB. This outlook contains forward looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices, tax settlements and employee benefit costs. Some factors, among others, that could affect market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both domestic operations and USSE include global product demand, prices and mix; global and company steel production levels; plant operating performance; the timing and completion of facility projects; natural gas prices and usage; raw materials availability and prices; changes in environmental, tax and other laws; employee strikes; power outages; legal proceedings regarding the proposed Gary Works tax settlement and U.S. and global economic performance and political developments. Domestic steel shipments and prices could be affected by import levels and actions taken by the U.S. Government and its agencies. Political factors in Europe that may affect USSEs results include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures. Future pension costs will be influenced by the market performance of plan assets, laws and regulations regarding discount rates and other calculations, and other economic factors. Future costs for active and retiree medical benefits will be influenced by medical inflation rates, future laws and regulations and retiree participation levels. Accounting Standards In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R) which addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that do not have sufficient equity investment to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. The Interpretation provides guidance related to identifying variable interest entities and determining whether such entities should be consolidated. It also provides guidance related to the initial and subsequent measurement of assets, liabilities and 54 Table of Contents noncontrolling interests in newly consolidated variable interest entities and requires disclosures for both the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and other beneficiaries of the entity. In accordance with FIN 46R, U. S. Steel consolidated the 1314B Partnership as of January 1, 2004. See further discussion in Note 18 to the Financial statements. In May 2004, FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106 2 (FSP FAS 106 2), Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Drug Act) was issued. FSP FAS 106 2 finalizes the accounting for the Drug Act and specifies that the effect of the Federal subsidy on a benefit plans accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) shall be accounted for as an actuarial experience gain. U. S. Steel accounted for the estimated effects of the Drug Act on its APBO as of December 31, 2003. Estimated savings of $450 million were included as an actuarial gain primarily due to changes in participation assumptions caused by the impact of the Drug Act in combination with the cost cap negotiated with the USWA in May 2003 and due to savings from reduced costs for mineworker participants because it is anticipated that the mineworkers union drug program will qualify for the Federal subsidy. Periodic postretirement benefit costs for 2004 were reduced by $60 million due to the estimated impact of these changes. There may also be significant clarifications of the Drug Act in future years that could significantly alter some or all of U. S. Steels assumptions. Furthermore, the participant withdrawal rates could occur at a different pace than has been assumed and the estimated savings could be greater or less than currently identified. No guidance has been issued regarding the effects of the Drug Act on U. S. Steels liabilities under the Coal Act of 1992, which is currently being accounted for under FAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 151 Inventory Costs (FAS 151) which amends ARB 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expenses, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges. In addition, FAS 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of FAS 151 are effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to inventory costs incurred on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect this Statement to have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, (FAS 123R) which is a revision of FAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, (FAS 123) and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. This Statement applies to U. S. Steel for all awards granted on or after July 1, 2005, and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after July 1, 2005, for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for pro forma disclosures. U. S. Steel expects the effect of adopting this Statement on 2005 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $15 million. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 152, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 66 and 67. This Statement amends FASB Statements No. 66 and 67 in association with the issuance of SOP 04 2, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, which applies to all real estate time sharing transactions. This Statement is effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to any real estate time sharing transactions occurring on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not have any real estate time sharing arrangements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. This Statement eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29 and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. This Statement specifies that a nonmonetary 55 Table of Contents exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of this Statement are effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this Statement prospectively to nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring on or after January 1, 2006. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, (FSP FAS 109 1) which states that the FASB staff believes that the qualified production activities deduction provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109 (FAS 109.) This FSP was effective upon issuance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which states that the FASB staff believes that the lack of clarification of certain provisions within the Act and the timing of the enactment necessitate a practical exemption to the FAS 109 requirement to reflect in the period of enactment the effect of a new tax law. Accordingly, an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying FAS 109. See Note 13 to the Financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas, heating oil and nonferrous metals and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. 56 Table of Contents Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pre tax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Decrease of(a) 2004 2003 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Zinc 2.9 7.2 1.2 3.1 Tin NA NA 0.0 0.1 Natural Gas 1.8 4.4 0.9 2.2 (a) The definition of a derivative instrument includes certain fixed price physical commodity contracts. Such instruments are included in the above table. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2004, may cause future pre tax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $4 million in 2004, compared to a gain of $1 million in 2003 and a loss of $6 million in 2002. These gains and losses were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For additional quantitative information relating to derivative commodity instruments, see Note 25 to the Financial Statements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2004 and 2003 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) As of December 31 2004 2003 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFair Value(c) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFairValue(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 8 $ $ 16 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f) $ 1,419 $ 50 $ 1,993 $ 90 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 23 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. (d) For additional information, see Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (e) Includes amounts due within one year. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 17 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels portfolio of long term debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $50 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases 57 Table of Contents in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $14.3 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $47.0 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2004 euro forward rates would result in a $6.1 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 58 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 22,000 domestically and approximately 26,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented 20 Table of Contents by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in February 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Represented employees at USSB are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. All other filings are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the Securities and Exchange Commissions web site, the Internet address of which is www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on revenues and income (loss) of the reportable segments and Other Businesses and on revenues and other income and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 5 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 57 and F 58. 21 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Olympic Laser Processing(b) Van Buren, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Pipe Mills Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar and Delray Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 22 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Granite City, Illinois, which had been subject to a lease through 2012, was purchased in June 2004. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 215 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 23 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) Approximately 4 percent did not specify any damages sought at all, approximately 6 percent alleged damages of $1.0 million or less, another 0.6 percent alleged damages between $2.0 million and $10.0 million, and 0.4 percent alleged damages over $10 million. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 17,100 active claims outstanding. In 2002, U. S. Steel settled 1,135 claims for a total of approximately $700,000, and had a total of 2,662 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and 842 new claims filed. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that 24 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2004, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 20 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 8 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 10 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of sharing in any final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In 1988, U. S. Steel and two other PRPs (Bethlehem Steel Corporation and William Fiore) agreed to the issuance of an administrative order by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to undertake emergency removal work at the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. The cost of such removal, which has been completed, was approximately $4.2 million, of which U. S. Steel paid $3.4 million. EPA indicated that further remediation of this site would be required. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. After a Feasibility Study (FS) by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) and submission of a conceptual remedial action plan in 2001 by U. S. Steel, U. S. Steel submitted a revised conceptual remedial action plan on May 31, 2002. U. S. Steel and PADEP signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible 25 Table of Contents for remediation of this site. On March 18, 2003, PADEP notified U. S. Steel that the public comment period was concluded and the Consent Order and Agreement is final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $7.0 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from EPA requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/FS. The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project based on the groups selection from the range of alternatives presented in the FS is estimated to be $6.4 million. Of that total, U. S. Steels allocable share among the eight PRPs is approximately $1.0 million. In addition, U. S. Steels share of PRP group costs is expected to be less than $100,000 in 2005. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities The following is a discussion of other remediation activities at the major domestic U. S. Steel facilities: There are 39 additional sites related to U. S. Steel where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 4 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 17 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 5 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. Another 4 sites, including the Grand Calumet River remediation at Gary Works, the closure of hazardous waste sites at Gary Works, the claim for investigation, restoration and compensation of injuries to sediments in the east branch of the Grand Calumet River near Gary Works, and corrective action and groundwater investigation at Gary Works, have or are expected to have costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation in excess of $5 million. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. In 1999, U. S. Steel paid civil penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs. In addition, U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with NPDES requirements. The sediment remediation project is an approved final interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works. As of December 31, 2004, project costs have amounted to $51.5 million with another $100,000 presently projected to complete work under the approved sediment remediation plan. A Dredge Completion Report was submitted to EPA on March 29, 2004. EPA responded with written comments on the report. In response, U. S. Steel conducted additional sampling of river sediments in a portion of the dredge project area. Based on the results of the additional sediment sampling, U. S. Steel is considering additional dredging that would include additional substantial bank stabilization measures. Negotiations to have this additional work considered as a final measure are proceeding. The additional dredging and bank stabilization is anticipated to cost approximately $9.0 million. At the conclusion of the dredge project, the Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) will remain available and could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective 26 Table of Contents measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to the Administrative Order on Consent for corrective action. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $4.9 million. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River, costs of which are estimated to be $2.4 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property. The D2 disposal site and a nearby refuse area will be closed collectively. Total costs to close D2, D5, T2 and the refuse area are estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The public trustees completed a preassessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have determined to perform a Natural Resources Damages Assessment. U. S. Steel was identified as a PRP along with 15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. U. S. Steel and eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The trustees notified the public of their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. In 2000, the trustees concluded their assessment of sediment injuries, which included a technical review of environmental conditions. The PRP joint defense group has proposed terms for the settlement of this claim, which have been endorsed by representatives of the trustees and EPA to be included in a consent decree that U. S. Steel expects will resolve this claim. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs, and obtained an 8 acre parcel of land that has been transferred to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for addition to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Park owned by the National Park Service. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement has been executed by the parties and lodged with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana on August 20, 2004. Concurrent with this lodging of the Consent Decree, the United States of America filed its complaint titled United States of America v. Atlantic Richfield, et. al. asserting liability for its claim against the settling parties. In December 2004, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) filed a motion with the court that requested approval and entry of the consent decree. On October 23, 1998, a final Administrative Order on Consent was issued by EPA addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. The Current Conditions Report, U. S. Steels first deliverable, was submitted to EPA in January 1997 and was approved by EPA in 1998. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans and a self implementing interim measure have been submitted to EPA for approval. Two other self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $14.9 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations and the submitted work plans is estimated to be $6.4 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to present. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $424,000. 27 Table of Contents Fairfield Works In December 1995, U. S. Steel reached an agreement in principle with EPA and DOJ with respect to alleged RCRA violations at Fairfield Works. A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and DOJ and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved for the site on September 16, 2002. Field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel is currently preparing a Phase I RFI Report for submission to ADEM in early 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $414,000. In addition, U. S. Steel is developing a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. Lower Opossum Creek is approximately 4.5 miles of the Opossum Creek Area of Concern. U. S. Steel is investigating Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the investigation costs. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of this investigation and costs to implement sediment remediation to be $823,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $478,000. Lorain Pipe Mills In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe), was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. USS/Kobe and EPA commenced settlement negotiations in July 1999. In August 1999, the steelmaking and bar producing operations of USS/Kobe were combined with companies controlled by Blackstone Capital Partners II to form Republic. The tubular operations of USS/Kobe were transferred to a newly formed entity, Lorain Tubular Company, LLC (Lorain Tubular), which operated as a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe until December 31, 1999, when U. S. Steel purchased all of Kobes interest in Lorain Tubular. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Pipe Mills. U. S. Steel and EPA have agreed upon terms of settlement that include a cash penalty for U. S. Steel of $100,000 plus a supplemental environmental project to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Negotiations on the final terms and conditions of the consent decree are ongoing. Most of the matters raised by EPA relate to Republics facilities; however, air discharges from U. S. Steels No. 3 seamless pipe mill were also cited and U. S. Steel will be responsible for conducting a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. U. S. Steel will be responsible only for matters relating to its facilities. Issues related to Republic have been resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works U. S. Steel has agreed to the terms of a consent decree that will include the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the BOP; a civil penalty of $950,000; and a supplemental environmental project at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Great Lakes Works continues to identify and evaluate potential operating practices and facility improvements to reduce emissions. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $12.9 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through December 31, 2004. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $363,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. 28 Table of Contents Geneva Works In November 1989, the Utah Department of Environmental Quality issued a permit to U. S. Steel for the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments including facility wide corrective action at U. S. Steels former Geneva Works. The permit was administratively extended until May 14, 2004, when it was reissued to U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company (Geneva), the site owner. The permit allocates responsibility for corrective action between U. S. Steel and Geneva. U. S. Steel has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations on some areas of the facility for which U. S. Steel has responsibility under the permit. The remaining costs to prepare these work plans, implement field investigations and continue post closure care on the three hazardous waste impoundments are estimated to be approximately $5.6 million. On June 2, 2004, Geneva filed a motion in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Utah to approve the amendment and assumption of the 1987 Asset Sales Agreement, the acceptance of the permit and the retention of a remediation contractor. On July 7, 2004, the motion was heard and granted providing for Genevas continuing involvement and funding of the remediation required by the permit. Other In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The site was owned by Armour Agriculture Chemical Company (now named Viad) from 1912 to 1968. U. S. Steel owned the site from 1968 to 1986 and sold the site to LaRoche Industries in 1986. The agreed order allocated responsibility for assessment and cleanup costs as follows: Viad 48 percent, U. S. Steel 26 percent and LaRoche 26 percent; and LaRoche was appointed to be the lead party responsible for conducting the cleanup. In March 2001, U. S. Steel was notified that LaRoche had filed for protection under bankruptcy law. On August 23, 2001, the allocation of responsibility for this site assessment and cleanup and the cost allocation was approved by the bankruptcy court in the LaRoche bankruptcy. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $801,000, based on the allocation factor of 26 percent. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas. The site is a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. U. S. Steel agreed in a Consent Order before KDHE, signed April 7, 2003, with KDHE and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Under that agreement, U. S. Steel and SSB each bear a 50 percent share of the costs of those responsibilities. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.2 million. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2005, are as follows: John J. Connelly 58 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 56 Executive Vice PresidentOperations Gretchen R. Haggerty 49 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer Christopher J. Navetta 56 President, U. S. Steel Kosice, s.r.o. Dan D. Sandman 56 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 55 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 57 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 50 President and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 55. As of January 31, 2005, there were 31,747 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2004, no unregistered shares were issued. 30 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2004(a) 2003 2002 2001(b) 2000(b) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues and other income(c)(d) $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 $ 6,375 $ 6,132 Income (loss) from operations(e) 1,580 (730 ) 128 (405 ) 104 Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) 1,077 (406 ) 61 (218 ) (21 ) Net income (loss)(e) $ 1,091 $ (463 ) $ 61 $ (218 ) $ (21 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(f) basic $ 9.47 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.37 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Net income (loss)(f) basic 9.60 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.48 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Dividends paid(g) .20 .20 .20 .55 1.00 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 10,956 $ 7,837 $ 7,977 $ 8,337 $ 8,711 Capitalization: Notes payable $ $ $ $ $ 70 Long term debt including amount due within one year(h) 1,371 1,933 1,434 1,466 2,375 Preferred stock of subsidiary(i) 66 Trust Preferred Securities(i) 183 Stockholders equity 3,970 1,093 2,027 2,506 1,919 Total capitalization $ 5,341 $ 3,026 $ 3,461 $ 3,972 $ 4,613 (a) Includes minor revisions from the unaudited results reported on Form 8 K filed on January 25, 2005. Unaudited results for the year ended December 31, 2004, were income from operations of $1,584 million and net income of $1,085 million, or $8.44 per diluted share. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon). On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2000, and the income statement for each of the two years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, represent a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. Stockholders equity as of December 31, 2000, represents the combined net assets of the businesses comprising U. S. Steel (Marathons net investment in U. S. Steel). (c) Consists of revenues, dividend and investee income (loss), net gains on disposal of assets and other income (loss). (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in revenues and other income from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic, which was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. These were partially offset by reduced domestic tubular and plate shipment volumes. The increase in revenues and other income from 2000 to 2001 was mainly due to the inclusion of USSK revenues for the full year, the inclusion of Transtar revenues following the reorganization and higher income from investees relating to the gain on the Transtar reorganization; partially offset by lower domestic sheet, tubular and plate shipment volumes, lower average realized prices for domestic sheet products, and the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. The decrease from 2000 to 2001 mainly resulted from lower prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; higher employee benefit costs; lower results from coal, iron ore pellet and tin operations; and increased asset impairments; partially offset by a full year of income from USSK and the gain on the Transtar reorganization. (f) See Note 11 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (g) For years 2000 and 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (h) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease in long term debt from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to transactions related to the separation from Marathon. (i) At the separation from Marathon, these securities were either redeemed for cash by Marathon, or retained by Marathon and redeemed or repaid in January 2002. 31 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel is the second largest integrated steel producer in North America and has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume; selling prices; production costs; and value added product mix, since these products typically provide a higher profit margin than more commodity type steel products. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on its ability to implement the strategy described below. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, and U. S. Steel in particular, include the sustainability of higher steel prices; the steep increase in the cost of purchased raw materials; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has led to much of the recent volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States increased significantly during 2004 and could continue to increase depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, and consumption in the United States versus other regions. Strategy U. S. Steels business strategy is to continue to grow its investment in high end finishing assets, expand its global business platform, reduce its costs and become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets where management believes that U. S. Steels leadership position, production and processing capabilities and technical service provide a competitive advantage. These products include advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets for the construction industry, improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods. U. S. Steel continues to enhance its value added businesses through the upgrading and modernization of its key production facilities. U. S. Steel continues to be interested in participating in further consolidation of the North American steel industry if it would be beneficial to customers, shareholders, creditors and employees. U. S. Steel continues to explore additional opportunities for steel and raw materials investments in Europe. U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading European steel producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing 32 Table of Contents European markets, to grow its customer base in Europe by providing reliable delivery of high quality steel and to invest in value added facilities, including a planned automotive hot dip galvanizing line, to improve USSEs product mix. Expansion opportunities in Europe and North America would be attractive to U. S. Steel. South America, China and India are also possible areas of interest. In 2004, U. S. Steel concentrated on successfully integrating the businesses acquired in 2003 (discussed below), improving its balance sheet, increasing liquidity and continuing to strengthen its core steel businesses in order to be better positioned for further expansion and continued improvements to its existing facilities. An equity offering of 8 million common shares was completed in March 2004 for net proceeds of $294 million, which were primarily used to redeem certain senior notes. In April 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of its 10 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of its 9 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. In addition, USSK retired $281 million of long term debt in 2004. In total these debt repayments reduced annualized interest expense by approximately $50 million. Also during 2004, U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan and $30 million to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In October 2004, U. S. Steels $600 million revolving credit facility was amended and restated to: 1) extend the maturity to October 2009, 2) increase the borrowing base, 3) reduce the pricing for both borrowings and undrawn commitments, and 4) limit the application of many of the restrictive covenants. In February 2004, U. S. Steel continued to divest its non core assets when it sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. In 2003, U. S. Steel engaged in several significant transactions aimed at strengthening its core steel businesses. On May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy substantially all of the integrated steelmaking assets of National Steel Corporation (National). See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. The facilities that were acquired included two integrated steel plants, Granite City Works in Granite City, Illinois, and Great Lakes Works in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan; the Midwest Plant in Portage, Indiana; ProCoil Company LLC (ProCoil) in Canton, Michigan; a 50 percent equity interest in Double G Coatings Company, L.P. (Double G) near Jackson, Mississippi; the iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota (Keetac); and the Delray Connecting Railroad Company (Delray) in Michigan. This acquisition increased annual domestic raw steel production capability by 6.6 million net tons (tons) to 19.4 million tons. U. S. Steel and the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) reached a five year labor agreement that was effective upon the completion of the National acquisition and which covers both U. S. Steel and former National employees. This agreement allowed for a workforce restructuring aimed at achieving a 20 percent productivity improvement, expanded profit based variable compensation, provided cost sharing mechanisms for employee and retiree health care expenses, and provided a joint mechanism to consider further acquisitions of steel and steel related assets in North America. On September 12, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy Sartid a.d. (In Bankruptcy), an integrated steel company located in the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Sartid). U. S. Steel is operating these facilities as USSB. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. This acquisition increased annual European raw steel production capability by 2.4 million tons to 7.4 million tons. On June 30, 2003, U. S. Steel completed the sale of its coal mines and related assets (Mining Sale). As a result, U. S. Steel no longer mines any coal. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale. In a non monetary transaction in November 2003, U. S. Steels plate mill at Gary Works was exchanged for a pickling line located in East Chicago, Indiana. This was U. S. Steels only plate mill; however, U. S. Steel still produces plate in coil on its hot strip mills at Gary Works and at its European operations. 33 Table of Contents In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. Straightline Source (Straightline) was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2005. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total $230 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets for 2005 would have decreased or increased, respectively, the expected net periodic pension cost by $34 million. U. S. Steel determines the discount rate applied to pension and OPEB obligations at each year end or required interim period based on a number of external barometers used to measure the status of high quality bond rates consistent with the expected payout period of the obligations. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 6.0 percent to 5.75 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2005 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. Total OPEB costs in 2005 are expected to be approximately $109 million. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, a 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased pension and OPEB liabilities by $340 million and $110 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased pension and OPEB liabilities by $370 million and $120 million, respectively. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on 34 Table of Contents the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most salaried benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2005. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the escalation trend would have increased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $8 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the escalation trend would have decreased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $7 million in 2005. Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. The amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2004, was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of these net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004 and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2004, total accruals for environmental remediation were $123 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. 35 Table of Contents Segments During 2004, U. S. Steel had four reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE), Tubular Products (Tubular) and Real Estate. As of January 1, 2004, the residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. The application of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, resulted in U. S. Steel consolidating the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. (1314B Partnership) effective January 1, 2004. The results of the 1314B Partnership, which are included in the Flat rolled segment, were previously accounted for under the equity method. For further information, see Notes 4 and 18 to the Financial Statements. The National acquisition changed the composition of the Flat rolled segment and Other Businesses as described below, but did not result in a change in U. S. Steels reportable segments. Effective with the Mining Sale, Other Businesses are no longer involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. Effective with the acquisition of Sartid, the USSK segment was renamed USSE and includes the operating results of both USSK and USSB. Effective with the third quarter of 2003, the composition of the Flat rolled segment was changed to include the results of the coke operations at Clairton Works and Gary Works, which were previously reported in Other Businesses. This change reflected U. S. Steels management consolidations. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2003, benefit expenses for current retirees are separately identified and are no longer allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. These expenses include pensions, health care, life insurance and any profit based expenses for the benefit of retirees. Benefit expenses for active employees continue to be allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. Furthermore, U. S. Steel changed its methodology for allocating certain corporate costs. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for details. These changes were made so that operating results of U. S. Steels reportable segments will better reflect their current contribution and so that U. S. Steels segment results will be more comparable to those of its primary competitors who do not have significant fixed retiree obligations. Comparative results have been conformed to the current year presentation. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the service centers, conversion, transportation (including automotive), containers, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G, which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with Sartid. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service centers, appliance, containers, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed and developed for sale or lease. In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. In February 2004, U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. Prior to the disposition of these assets, results they generated were reported in the Real Estate segment. The Straightline segment included the operating results of U. S. Steels technology enabled distribution business that was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. 36 Table of Contents All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services, and engineering and consulting services. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of Keetac and Delray, which were acquired from National. Prior to the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer value for rounds supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and the transfer value of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs. Income The principal drivers of U. S. Steels financial results are price, volume, cost and product mix. To the extent that these factors are affected by industry conditions and the overall economic climate, revenues and income will reflect such conditions. Revenues and other income (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003(a) 2002 Revenues by product: Flat rolled steel products $ 11,549 $ 7,372 $ 5,115 Tubular 1,042 626 555 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore)(b) 705 419 513 Other(c) 673 911 766 Income (loss) from investees 57 (11 ) 33 Net gains on disposal of assets 57 85 29 Other income 25 56 43 Total revenues and other income $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Revenue from the sale of coal ceased with the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003. Includes revenue from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. Included revenue from steel mill products distribution prior to January 1, 2004, when the residual results of Straightline were included in Flat rolled; and revenue from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Total revenues and other income in 2004 increased $4,650 million compared to 2003. The increases primarily reflected higher average realized prices for Flat rolled, Tubular and European operations; higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet, tin and tubular products; higher shipment volumes for USSE; and higher revenues on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill and the absence of revenues from coal sales in 2004 due to the Mining Sale. Revenues for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues and other income in 2004 included a $43 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $36 million and other income of $7 million. Revenues and other income in 2003 included a net gain on disposal of assets of $55 million resulting from the timber contribution to the pension plan and a $47 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $13 million and other income of $34 million. Total revenues and other income in 2003 increased $2,404 million compared to 2002. The increase primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the Mining Sale, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. 37 Table of Contents Income from investees in 2002 included $39 million of insurance recoveries related to a 2001 fire at USS POSCO, other income included $38 million from a Federal excise tax refund, and gains on disposal of assets included $20 million from the sale of U. S. Steels shares of VSZ a.s. (VSZ). Profit based union payments Results for 2004 included costs of $241 million related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. Segment results for 2004 included $131 million of these costs and the balance was included in retiree benefit expenses. All of these costs are included in cost of revenues. Payment amounts per the agreement are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) to be contributed to a trust to assist National retirees with healthcare costs based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item are calculated in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $254 million in 2004, compared to $556 million in 2003 and a credit of $3 million in 2002. The costs in 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The credit in 2002 included $100 million of settlement losses. Excluding these one time charges, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. Excluding settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase of $212 million in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to a lower return on assets, a decline in the expected return on assets assumption and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $106 million in 2004, compared to $241 million in 2003 and $150 million in 2002. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. The increase in 2003 compared to 2002, excluding the curtailment charges, was primarily due to the addition of liabilities for National employees, changes in rate of retirement assumptions and a lower discount rate. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $18 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003 and 2002. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase in 2004 was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights and lower OPEB costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $673 million in 2003, compared to $418 million in 2002. The increase in 2003 was primarily due to higher pension and OPEB costs, increased compensation expense related 38 Table of Contents to stock appreciation rights, and higher expenses at USSE due mainly to unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange rate differences and increased business development expenses. These were partially offset by the favorable effect in 2003 of the absence of the impairment of retiree medical cost reimbursements receivable from Republic, which occurred in 2002. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for further details. Income (loss) from operations: (a) (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Flat rolled $ 1,185 $ (54 ) $ (84 ) USSE 394 203 110 Tubular 197 (25 ) (6 ) Real Estate 30 50 50 Straightline (70 ) (45 ) Total income (loss) from reportable segments 1,806 104 25 Other Businesses 28 (35 ) 33 Segment Income (Loss) from operations 1,834 69 58 Retiree benefit (expenses) credits (257 ) (107 ) 79 Other items not allocated to segments: Workforce reduction charges (including pension settlements) (17 ) (621 ) (100 ) Stock appreciation rights (23 ) (75 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Asset impairments (57 ) (14 ) Litigation items (25 ) 9 Costs related to Fairless shutdown (1 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire 39 Federal excise tax refund 38 Gain on VSZ share sale 20 Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,580 $ (730 ) $ 128 (a) See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices, which increased by $152 per ton; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. Flat rolled recorded a segment loss of $54 million in 2003, compared to a loss of $84 million in 2002. The decreased loss was primarily due to higher average realized prices and favorable effects resulting from ongoing cost improvement programs, the National acquisition and workforce reductions. These were partially offset by increased prices for raw materials, natural gas and utilities; higher employee benefit costs; increased costs for repair outages; and costs associated with the August 2003 power outage, which interrupted operations in Michigan and Ohio. 39 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income for 2004 was $394 million, compared to income of $203 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, which increased by $171 per ton, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. USSE segment income for the full year 2003 reflected an increase of $93 million from 2002. The improvement was primarily due to higher average realized prices as a result of favorable exchange rate effects and price increases, as well as higher shipment volumes. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, USSE shipments included those realized under toll conversion agreements with Sartid and, effective September 12, 2003, included all shipments from USSB (formerly Sartid). These improvements were partially offset by the unfavorable effect on costs of changes in foreign exchange rates; costs associated with the conversion and facility management agreements with Sartid, which were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition; and post acquisition operating losses at USSB including effects from a 38 day strike. Segment results for Tubular Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices, which increased by $233 per ton. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of tube rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which are transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. The segment loss for Tubular in 2003 reflected a decline of $19 million from 2002 primarily due to lower average realized prices for seamless products and higher natural gas prices, partially offset by increased shipment volumes for seamless products and income from the sale of Delta Tubular Processing. Segment results for Real Estate Real Estate segment income for 2004 was $30 million, down $20 million from 2003. The decrease primarily reflected lower mineral interest royalties as a result of the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Real Estate segment income for 2003 and 2002 was $50 million. Increased coal seam gas royalties were offset by lower real estate sales. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses recorded income of $28 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $35 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services. The loss for Other Businesses for 2003 reflected a decline of $68 million from income of $33 million in 2002. The decrease mainly reflected lower results from iron ore pellet operations due primarily to reduced shipment volumes, and lower results for coal operations and transportation services. Items not allocated to segments: Stock appreciation rights resulted in $23 million and $75 million of compensation expense accrued in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued over the last ten years and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. No stock appreciation rights were issued in 2004. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees, while the $100 million in 2002 reflected pension settlement losses related to retirements of personnel covered under the 40 Table of Contents non union qualified pension plan and the non qualified defined benefit pension plan. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels ongoing operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Asset impairments in 2002 were for charges related to reserves established against receivables exposure from financially distressed steel companies, primarily Republic. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of Real Estates remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain of Real Estates coal seam gas interests and from the Mining Sale. Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire represent U. S. Steels share of insurance recoveries in excess of facility repair costs for the cold reduction mill fire at USS POSCO, which occurred in May 2001. The final payment was received in December 2002. Federal excise tax refund represents the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales during the period 1993 through 1999. During 2002, U. S. Steel received cash and recognized pre tax income of $38 million, which is included in other income on the statement of operations. Of the $38 million received, $11 million represented interest. Net interest and other financial costs Net interest and other financial costs were $119 million in 2004, compared to $130 million in 2003 and $115 million in 2002. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. The decrease in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected lower interest on tax related liabilities, partially due to the more favorable 2004 adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes, more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and increased interest income. These favorable items were partially offset by a $33 million charge resulting from the early redemption of certain senior debt in April 2004. The $15 million increase from 2002 to 2003 was primarily due to interest on the new 9 3/4% senior notes, partially offset by more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and lower interest on tax related liabilities resulting from the favorable $17 million adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of both, and resulted in net gains of $32 million, $20 million and $16 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2004 was $351 million, compared to benefits in 2003 and 2002 of $454 million and $48 million, respectively. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefits in 2003 and 2002 included favorable effects relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million and $8 million, respectively. The change to a tax provision in 2004 as compared to tax benefits in the previous two years was primarily the result of pre tax income from domestic 41 Table of Contents operations recorded in 2004 compared to domestic pre tax losses in 2003 and 2002. The increase in the tax benefit in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to increased pre tax losses for domestic operations, including increased benefit costs. The Slovak Income Tax Act provides an income tax credit, which is available to USSK if certain conditions are met. In order to claim the tax credit in any year, 60 percent of USSKs sales must be export sales and USSK must reinvest the tax credits claimed in qualifying capital expenditures during the five years following the year in which the tax credit is claimed. The provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 100 percent of USSKs tax liability for years 2000 through 2004 and 50 percent of the current statutory rate of 19 percent for the years 2005 through 2009. Management believes that USSK fulfilled all of the necessary conditions for claiming the tax credit for the years for which it was claimed and anticipates meeting such requirements in 2005. As a result of claiming these tax credits and managements intent to reinvest earnings in foreign operations, virtually no income tax provision, except for the two $16 million tax payments discussed below, is recorded for USSK income. In connection with Slovakia joining the European Union (EU), the total tax credit granted to USSK for the period 2000 through 2009 was limited to $430 million, and USSK agreed to make tax payments of $16 million in 2004 and 2005, the first of which was paid in June 2004. Also, additional conditions for claiming the tax credit were established. These new conditions limit USSKs annual production of flat rolled product and its sales of all products into the 15 countries that were members of the EU prior to Slovakia and 9 other nations joining the EU in May 2004. Management believes the future impact of these changes will be minimal because Slovak tax laws have been modified and tax rates have been reduced since the acquisition of USSK; and the production and sales limits, which provide for annual increases through 2009, are not materially burdensome. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004, and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax liabilities of $314 million and $61 million, respectively. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2004, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the lack of historical information and the losses experienced in the months immediately following the acquisition of USSB. If USSB continues to generate income, the valuation allowance of $17 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2004 was $1,091 million, compared with a net loss of $463 million in 2003 and net income of $61 million in 2002. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Operations Flat rolled shipments were 15.6 million tons in 2004, 13.5 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from the facilities acquired from National, and 9.9 million tons in 2002. Tubular shipments were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 0.9 million tons in 2003 and 0.8 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 4 percent of U. S. Steels domestic shipments in 2004 and 2003, and 5 percent in 2002. USSE shipments were 5.0 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from USSB, and 4.0 million tons in 2002. 42 Table of Contents The acquisition of the assets of National on May 20, 2003, increased U. S. Steels stated annual raw steel production capability for domestic operations from 12.8 millions tons to 19.4 million tons. Raw steel production was 17.3 million tons in 2004, compared with 14.9 million tons in 2003, including production from the National assets following the acquisition, and 11.5 million tons in 2002. Raw steel production averaged 89 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 88 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the National capability on a prorata basis, and 90 percent of capability in 2002. All steel produced in U. S. Steels domestic facilities is continuous cast. Domestic capability utilization in 2004 and 2003 was reduced by scheduled blast furnace repair outages, which occurred in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2004 and in the second quarter of 2003. In 2002, domestic raw steel production was affected by poor market conditions during the first quarter, the acceleration into the fourth quarter of some blast furnace repair work that was originally scheduled to occur in 2003 and the high level of imports. The acquisition of Sartid on September 12, 2003, increased USSEs stated annual raw steel production capability from 5.0 million tons to 7.4 million tons. USSE raw steel production was 5.7 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including production from the Sartid assets following the acquisition, and 4.4 million tons in 2002. USSEs raw steel production averaged 77 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 84 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the Sartid capability on a prorata basis, and 88 percent in 2002. USSEs capability utilization in 2004 was reduced by the inclusion of USSB, as well as by operational difficulties with a blast furnace in Slovakia during the first quarter. USSEs capability utilization in 2003 was reduced by a blast furnace outage at USSK and the partial period inclusion of USSB as only about a third of its annual production capability was operational at the time of its acquisition in September 2003. USSBs capability utilization averaged 48 percent in 2004 and 20 percent in 2003 following the acquisition. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2004 increased $1,137 million from year end 2003 primarily due to increased cash balances and higher trade receivables. The increase in cash was mainly due to improved operations, $294 million of net proceeds from an equity offering and proceeds from the disposal of assets, partially offset by capital spending, the voluntary funding of benefit plans, the repayment of USSK debt and the redemption of certain senior notes. The increase in trade receivables primarily resulted from higher revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004, compared to last years fourth quarter, resulting mainly from higher steel prices. FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability is no longer required for this plan. Consequently, required entries were recorded that increased prepaid pensions by $2.48 billion, decreased the intangible pension asset by $440 million and resulted in a net credit to equity of $1.45 billion, which decreased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2004 decreased $325 million from year end 2003 and long term deferred income tax liabilities increased $592 million, primarily due to the elimination of federal and state deferred tax assets that were established in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2004 increased $404 million from year end 2003 mainly due to increases in accounts payable and payroll and benefits payable. The increase in accounts payable resulted mainly from higher raw materials costs and increased purchases of capital assets in late 2004 compared to the same period last year. The increase in payroll and benefits payable was primarily due to liabilities resulting from the profit based union payments that were previously discussed. Long term debt at December 31, 2004, was $1,363 million, $527 million lower than year end 2003. The decrease in debt was primarily due to the retirement of $281 million of USSK long term debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. 43 Table of Contents Employee benefits at December 31, 2004, decreased $257 million from year end 2003. Employee benefits at year end 2003 included the net pension liability related to an additional minimum liability adjustment for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan. In addition, OPEB liabilities decreased primarily because the sum of retiree medical benefit payments made in cash and a $30 million voluntary cash contribution to a trust exceeded the amount of retiree medical expense booked in 2004. Retiree medical expense was $60 million lower in 2004 as compared to 2003 due to recognition of the estimated effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and a cost cap negotiated with the USWA in 2003. For further information, see Estimated Future Benefit Payments in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Additional paid in capital increased by $354 million from the prior year end primarily reflecting U. S. Steels equity offering that was completed in March 2004. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities was $1,400 million in 2004, compared with $577 million in 2003. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items was partially offset by increased working capital requirements. Cash from operating activities in 2004 was reduced by $295 million of voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan, $186 million of OPEB payments, $50 million of payments to a multiemployer pension plan, $44 million of payments to pension plans not funded by trusts and $30 million of contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In 2003, OPEB payments were primarily funded by trusts. The $75 million in voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan in 2003 consisted of timber cutting rights valued at $59 million and $16 million of cash. Further contributions totaling $15 million were made to other smaller pension plans in 2003. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2006. Net cash provided from operating activities of $577 million in 2003 reflected an improvement of $298 million compared to 2002. The improvement resulted mainly from lower working capital requirements. Capital expenditures in 2004 were $579 million, compared with $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Major domestic projects in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills. Major projects at USSE in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $258 million, including $97 million for USSE. Major projects in 2002 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills and various projects at USSK, including continued work on the new tinning and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, completion of the scrap management and hot strip mill reheat furnace upgrade projects, commencement of work on a new dynamo line and installation of a vacuum degassing facility. U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2004, totaled $98 million compared with $23 million at December 31, 2003. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2004, was $257 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $135 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2004, leaving a balance of $22 million under this commitment. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements for further information. 44 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2005 are expected to be approximately $755 million, reflecting approximately $475 million for domestic operations and $280 million for European facilities. Domestic projects include the rebuild of the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, acquisition of mobile and mining equipment and coke oven thru wall repairs at Clairton Works and Gary Works. Projects in Slovakia include initial spending for a new automotive galvanizing line; and continuing work on air emissions reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include completion of the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace and steel production improvements. The preceding statement concerning expected 2005 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisitions in 2003 consisted of $839 million for the National assets, $29 million for USSB and a $37 million cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. The $38 million in 2002 was a cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. Disposal of assets in 2004 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of substantially all of the Real Estate segments remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Disposal of assets in 2003 consisted mainly of proceeds from the Mining Sale, cash collections on notes received in prior years asset disposals, the sale of the former National headquarters building and the sale of U. S. Steels interest in Delta Tubular Processing. Disposal of assets in 2002 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of U. S. Steels investment in stock of VSZ. Restricted cash Net deposits of $32 million in 2003 and $67 million in 2002 were mainly used to collateralize letters of credit to meet financial assurance requirements. Issuance of long term debt in 2003 resulted from the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May, net of deferred financing costs associated with the notes and the inventory facility. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2004 mainly reflected the retirement of long term USSK debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2003 and 2002 was mainly the USSK debt. Preferred stock issued in 2003 reflected net proceeds from the offering of 5 million shares of Series B Preferred. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004. The remaining amount mainly reflected proceeds from stock sales through the exercise of options. The 2003 amount primarily reflected sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. The 2002 amount primarily reflected $192 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in May 2002, as well as sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Dividends paid in 2004 were $39 million, compared with $35 million in 2003 and $19 million in 2002. Payments in all three periods reflected the quarterly dividend rate of five cents per common share. Dividends paid in 2004 also reflected a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share for the Series B Preferred. Dividends paid in 2003 also included an initial dividend of $1.206 per share for the Series B Preferred, which was paid on June 15, 2003, and a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share thereafter. The quarterly dividend rate per common share was increased to eight cents effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Debt and Convertible Preferred Shares Ratings On November 5, 2004, Moodys Investors Service upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating two steps, from B1 to Ba2. On November 12, 2004, Standard & Poors Ratings Services upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating from BB to BB and raised the preferred stock rating from B to B. 45 Table of Contents Liquidity In November 2001, U. S. Steel entered into a five year Receivables Purchase Agreement with financial institutions. U. S. Steel established a wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), which is a consolidated special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity that acquires, on a daily basis, eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries. USSR can sell an undivided interest in these receivables to certain commercial paper conduits. USSR pays the conduits a discount based on the conduits borrowing costs plus incremental fees, certain of which are determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, which increased fundings under the facility to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. Eligible receivables exclude certain obligors, amounts in excess of defined percentages for certain obligors, and amounts past due or due beyond a defined period. In addition, eligible receivables are calculated by deducting certain reserves, which are based on various determinants including concentration, dilution and loss percentages, as well as the credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had more than $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. While the term of the Receivables Purchase Agreement is five years, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed below and other debt obligations, any failure of USSR to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables, and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 23, 2005. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a four year revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by all domestic inventory and related assets (Inventory Facility), including receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The Inventory Facility contained a number of covenants that may have limited U. S. Steels ability to incur debt, make capital expenditures, sell assets, incur liens and make dividend and other restricted payments. The Inventory Facility also included a fixed charge coverage ratio test, which had to be met if availability was less than $100 million. In October 2004, the Inventory Facility was amended and restated to extend its maturity until October 2009, increase advance rates on semi finished and raw materials, reduce certain reserves, and modify pricing terms. In addition, many of the restrictive covenants apply now only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had in excess of $600 million of eligible inventory under the Inventory Facility, and utilized $6 million for letters of credit, reducing availability to $594 million. At December 31, 2004, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. In the third quarter of 2004, USSB entered into a new EUR 9.3 million (which approximated $12.7 million at December 31, 2004) committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility has a term of one year, and can be extended by mutual agreement of the parties for up to two additional one year periods. At December 31, 2004, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes), and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. 46 Table of Contents The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.2 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $118 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2004, an increase of $5 million during 2004, and expects to commit approximately $10 million to $20 million more during 2005. U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2004, in the amount of $42 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as obligations relating to Industrial Development and Environmental Improvement Bonds and Notes in the amount of $472 million and certain lease obligations totaling $190 million that were assumed by U. S. Steel from Marathon, may be declared immediately due and payable. 47 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2004: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents (a) $ 1,021 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSE credit facilities 69 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,184 (a) Excludes $16 million of cash, which resulted from the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership, because it is not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity at December 31, 2004 increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2004, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,373 $ 8 $ 33 $ 379 $ 953 Operating leases(b) 460 118 169 57 116 Capital commitments(c) 355 59 39 257 USSB Commitments 22 3 19 Environmental commitments(c) 123 21 102 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e ) 26 55 29 (e ) Other postretirement benefits (f ) 243 545 475 (f ) Total contractual obligations (g ) $ 475 $ 844 $ 959 (g ) (a) See Note 17 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2005 through 2009 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to 48 Table of Contents pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets which were managed by the Real Estate segment, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit plan in 2005. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $12 million to plans not funded by trusts in 2005. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2004, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 93 $ 65 $ 20 $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 21 4 17 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 28 28 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 25 8 1 14 2 Contingent liabilities: Marathon obligations(a)(d) 42 15 19 8 Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 1,627 1,001 383 152 91 Total commercial commitments $ 1,986 $ 1,093 $ 423 $ 174 $ 296 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of substrate and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In 2003, U. S. Steel entered into two off balance sheet arrangements for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. These operating lease arrangements are with special purpose trusts (SPTs). The SPTs financed the construction of the facilities and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficial owners of the SPTs. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of these entities. There are no guarantees of the obligations of these SPTs by U. S. Steel, and U. S. Steel would incur no significant penalties that would result in the reasonable assurance of continuation of the leases. U. S. Steels transactions with the SPTs are limited to the operating lease agreements, and the associated 49 Table of Contents lease expense is included in cost of revenues on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate these SPTs because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has unconditional supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 4 and Note 18 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 15 year agreement for the supply of electric power at Gary Works in Indiana, expiring in 2011. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of a 161 megawatt steam extraction turbine for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. Gary Works employees operate and maintain the facility and Gary Works supplies the steam for the turbine. This power is the first dispatched source of power to Gary Works. There are no take or pay obligations associated with this requirements contract and U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement results in an increase of approximately $60 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required 50 Table of Contents to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. 51 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Domestic: Capital $ 24 $ 8 $ 4 Compliance Operating & maintenance 241 206 171 Remediation(b) 18 38 36 Total Domestic $ 283 $ 252 $ 211 USSE: Capital $ 97 $ 22 $ 10 Compliance Operating & maintenance 8 10 8 Remediation(b) 3 3 1 Total USSE $ 108 $ 35 $ 19 Total U. S. Steel $ 391 $ 287 $ 230 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 21 percent of total capital expenditures in 2004, 10 percent in 2003 and 5 percent in 2002. Compliance expenditures represented 2 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2004, and 3 percent in 2003 and 2002. Remediation spending during 2002 to 2004 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2004, U. S. Steel accrued $34 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2004, was $123 million. Environmental spending in 2004 totaled $23 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2005. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $128 million in 2005, $69 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2005 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2006, including $90 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured electric cable; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. 53 Table of Contents Outlook for 2005 First quarter 2005 average realized prices for Flat rolled are expected to remain in line with or increase slightly from fourth quarter levels; however, results will be negatively affected by higher costs for raw materials, as well as slightly lower shipments. For full year 2005, Flat rolled shipments are expected to be about 15.4 million tons, reflecting the planned outage at the Gary No. 13 blast furnace. For USSE, first quarter average realized prices are expected to be moderately higher than in the fourth quarter of 2004, with shipments remaining about the same and costs for raw materials increasing significantly. USSE shipments for full year 2005 are projected to increase by about 15 percent to approximately 5.8 million net tons due mainly to higher operating levels at the Serbian facilities following the planned mid year startup of a second blast furnace. Shipments for Tubular in the first quarter of 2005 are expected to be at about the same level as in 2004s fourth quarter, while average realized prices are expected to continue to increase. Tubular announced price increases for certain products ranging from $50 to $250 per ton effective in January 2005. Full year shipments are expected to increase to 1.2 million tons. Costs will increase as a result of annual transfer value adjustments for semi finished steel, which comprehend raw material cost escalation, and higher costs for purchased rounds. First quarter 2005 results for Other Businesses will decline compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 due to normal seasonal effects at iron ore operations in Minnesota. In accordance with the previously announced settlement agreement with the City of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana regarding past years Gary Works personal property taxes, a Lake County appeals board is expected to consider a motion to resolve the appeals in accordance with the proposed settlement in early 2005. If the settlement is approved and becomes final as submitted, U. S. Steel would pay $44 million and would recognize a favorable income effect reflecting the reversal of liabilities accrued in excess of the settlement amount. Total costs in 2005 for domestic defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately the same as in 2004. For further information, see Critical Accounting Estimates Pensions and OPEB. This outlook contains forward looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices, tax settlements and employee benefit costs. Some factors, among others, that could affect market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both domestic operations and USSE include global product demand, prices and mix; global and company steel production levels; plant operating performance; the timing and completion of facility projects; natural gas prices and usage; raw materials availability and prices; changes in environmental, tax and other laws; employee strikes; power outages; legal proceedings regarding the proposed Gary Works tax settlement and U.S. and global economic performance and political developments. Domestic steel shipments and prices could be affected by import levels and actions taken by the U.S. Government and its agencies. Political factors in Europe that may affect USSEs results include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures. Future pension costs will be influenced by the market performance of plan assets, laws and regulations regarding discount rates and other calculations, and other economic factors. Future costs for active and retiree medical benefits will be influenced by medical inflation rates, future laws and regulations and retiree participation levels. Accounting Standards In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R) which addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that do not have sufficient equity investment to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. The Interpretation provides guidance related to identifying variable interest entities and determining whether such entities should be consolidated. It also provides guidance related to the initial and subsequent measurement of assets, liabilities and 54 Table of Contents noncontrolling interests in newly consolidated variable interest entities and requires disclosures for both the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and other beneficiaries of the entity. In accordance with FIN 46R, U. S. Steel consolidated the 1314B Partnership as of January 1, 2004. See further discussion in Note 18 to the Financial statements. In May 2004, FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106 2 (FSP FAS 106 2), Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Drug Act) was issued. FSP FAS 106 2 finalizes the accounting for the Drug Act and specifies that the effect of the Federal subsidy on a benefit plans accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) shall be accounted for as an actuarial experience gain. U. S. Steel accounted for the estimated effects of the Drug Act on its APBO as of December 31, 2003. Estimated savings of $450 million were included as an actuarial gain primarily due to changes in participation assumptions caused by the impact of the Drug Act in combination with the cost cap negotiated with the USWA in May 2003 and due to savings from reduced costs for mineworker participants because it is anticipated that the mineworkers union drug program will qualify for the Federal subsidy. Periodic postretirement benefit costs for 2004 were reduced by $60 million due to the estimated impact of these changes. There may also be significant clarifications of the Drug Act in future years that could significantly alter some or all of U. S. Steels assumptions. Furthermore, the participant withdrawal rates could occur at a different pace than has been assumed and the estimated savings could be greater or less than currently identified. No guidance has been issued regarding the effects of the Drug Act on U. S. Steels liabilities under the Coal Act of 1992, which is currently being accounted for under FAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 151 Inventory Costs (FAS 151) which amends ARB 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expenses, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges. In addition, FAS 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of FAS 151 are effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to inventory costs incurred on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect this Statement to have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, (FAS 123R) which is a revision of FAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, (FAS 123) and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. This Statement applies to U. S. Steel for all awards granted on or after July 1, 2005, and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after July 1, 2005, for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for pro forma disclosures. U. S. Steel expects the effect of adopting this Statement on 2005 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $15 million. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 152, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 66 and 67. This Statement amends FASB Statements No. 66 and 67 in association with the issuance of SOP 04 2, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, which applies to all real estate time sharing transactions. This Statement is effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to any real estate time sharing transactions occurring on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not have any real estate time sharing arrangements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. This Statement eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29 and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. This Statement specifies that a nonmonetary 55 Table of Contents exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of this Statement are effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this Statement prospectively to nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring on or after January 1, 2006. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, (FSP FAS 109 1) which states that the FASB staff believes that the qualified production activities deduction provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109 (FAS 109.) This FSP was effective upon issuance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which states that the FASB staff believes that the lack of clarification of certain provisions within the Act and the timing of the enactment necessitate a practical exemption to the FAS 109 requirement to reflect in the period of enactment the effect of a new tax law. Accordingly, an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying FAS 109. See Note 13 to the Financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas, heating oil and nonferrous metals and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. 56 Table of Contents Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pre tax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Decrease of(a) 2004 2003 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Zinc 2.9 7.2 1.2 3.1 Tin NA NA 0.0 0.1 Natural Gas 1.8 4.4 0.9 2.2 (a) The definition of a derivative instrument includes certain fixed price physical commodity contracts. Such instruments are included in the above table. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2004, may cause future pre tax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $4 million in 2004, compared to a gain of $1 million in 2003 and a loss of $6 million in 2002. These gains and losses were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For additional quantitative information relating to derivative commodity instruments, see Note 25 to the Financial Statements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2004 and 2003 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) As of December 31 2004 2003 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFair Value(c) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFairValue(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 8 $ $ 16 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f) $ 1,419 $ 50 $ 1,993 $ 90 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 23 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. (d) For additional information, see Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (e) Includes amounts due within one year. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 17 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels portfolio of long term debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $50 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases 57 Table of Contents in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $14.3 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $47.0 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2004 euro forward rates would result in a $6.1 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 58 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 22,000 domestically and approximately 26,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented 20 Table of Contents by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in February 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Represented employees at USSB are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. All other filings are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the Securities and Exchange Commissions web site, the Internet address of which is www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on revenues and income (loss) of the reportable segments and Other Businesses and on revenues and other income and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 5 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 57 and F 58. 21 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Olympic Laser Processing(b) Van Buren, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Pipe Mills Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar and Delray Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 22 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Granite City, Illinois, which had been subject to a lease through 2012, was purchased in June 2004. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 15 and 24 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 215 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 23 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) Approximately 4 percent did not specify any damages sought at all, approximately 6 percent alleged damages of $1.0 million or less, another 0.6 percent alleged damages between $2.0 million and $10.0 million, and 0.4 percent alleged damages over $10 million. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 17,100 active claims outstanding. In 2002, U. S. Steel settled 1,135 claims for a total of approximately $700,000, and had a total of 2,662 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and 842 new claims filed. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that 24 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2004, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 20 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 8 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 10 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of sharing in any final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In 1988, U. S. Steel and two other PRPs (Bethlehem Steel Corporation and William Fiore) agreed to the issuance of an administrative order by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to undertake emergency removal work at the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. The cost of such removal, which has been completed, was approximately $4.2 million, of which U. S. Steel paid $3.4 million. EPA indicated that further remediation of this site would be required. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. After a Feasibility Study (FS) by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) and submission of a conceptual remedial action plan in 2001 by U. S. Steel, U. S. Steel submitted a revised conceptual remedial action plan on May 31, 2002. U. S. Steel and PADEP signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible 25 Table of Contents for remediation of this site. On March 18, 2003, PADEP notified U. S. Steel that the public comment period was concluded and the Consent Order and Agreement is final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $7.0 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from EPA requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/FS. The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project based on the groups selection from the range of alternatives presented in the FS is estimated to be $6.4 million. Of that total, U. S. Steels allocable share among the eight PRPs is approximately $1.0 million. In addition, U. S. Steels share of PRP group costs is expected to be less than $100,000 in 2005. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities The following is a discussion of other remediation activities at the major domestic U. S. Steel facilities: There are 39 additional sites related to U. S. Steel where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 4 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 17 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 5 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. Another 4 sites, including the Grand Calumet River remediation at Gary Works, the closure of hazardous waste sites at Gary Works, the claim for investigation, restoration and compensation of injuries to sediments in the east branch of the Grand Calumet River near Gary Works, and corrective action and groundwater investigation at Gary Works, have or are expected to have costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation in excess of $5 million. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. In 1999, U. S. Steel paid civil penalties of $2.9 million for the alleged water act violations and $0.5 million in natural resource damages assessment costs. In addition, U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. During the negotiations leading up to the settlement with EPA, capital improvements were made to upgrade plant systems to comply with NPDES requirements. The sediment remediation project is an approved final interim measure under the corrective action program for Gary Works. As of December 31, 2004, project costs have amounted to $51.5 million with another $100,000 presently projected to complete work under the approved sediment remediation plan. A Dredge Completion Report was submitted to EPA on March 29, 2004. EPA responded with written comments on the report. In response, U. S. Steel conducted additional sampling of river sediments in a portion of the dredge project area. Based on the results of the additional sediment sampling, U. S. Steel is considering additional dredging that would include additional substantial bank stabilization measures. Negotiations to have this additional work considered as a final measure are proceeding. The additional dredging and bank stabilization is anticipated to cost approximately $9.0 million. At the conclusion of the dredge project, the Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) will remain available and could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective 26 Table of Contents measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to the Administrative Order on Consent for corrective action. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $4.9 million. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River, costs of which are estimated to be $2.4 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property. The D2 disposal site and a nearby refuse area will be closed collectively. Total costs to close D2, D5, T2 and the refuse area are estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. The public trustees completed a preassessment screen pursuant to federal regulations and have determined to perform a Natural Resources Damages Assessment. U. S. Steel was identified as a PRP along with 15 other companies owning property along the river and harbor canal. U. S. Steel and eight other PRPs have formed a joint defense group. The trustees notified the public of their plan for assessment and later adopted the plan. In 2000, the trustees concluded their assessment of sediment injuries, which included a technical review of environmental conditions. The PRP joint defense group has proposed terms for the settlement of this claim, which have been endorsed by representatives of the trustees and EPA to be included in a consent decree that U. S. Steel expects will resolve this claim. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs, and obtained an 8 acre parcel of land that has been transferred to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for addition to the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore Park owned by the National Park Service. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement has been executed by the parties and lodged with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana on August 20, 2004. Concurrent with this lodging of the Consent Decree, the United States of America filed its complaint titled United States of America v. Atlantic Richfield, et. al. asserting liability for its claim against the settling parties. In December 2004, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) filed a motion with the court that requested approval and entry of the consent decree. On October 23, 1998, a final Administrative Order on Consent was issued by EPA addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. The Current Conditions Report, U. S. Steels first deliverable, was submitted to EPA in January 1997 and was approved by EPA in 1998. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans and a self implementing interim measure have been submitted to EPA for approval. Two other self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $14.9 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations and the submitted work plans is estimated to be $6.4 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to present. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $424,000. 27 Table of Contents Fairfield Works In December 1995, U. S. Steel reached an agreement in principle with EPA and DOJ with respect to alleged RCRA violations at Fairfield Works. A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and DOJ and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved for the site on September 16, 2002. Field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel is currently preparing a Phase I RFI Report for submission to ADEM in early 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $414,000. In addition, U. S. Steel is developing a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. Lower Opossum Creek is approximately 4.5 miles of the Opossum Creek Area of Concern. U. S. Steel is investigating Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the investigation costs. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of this investigation and costs to implement sediment remediation to be $823,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $478,000. Lorain Pipe Mills In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe), was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. USS/Kobe and EPA commenced settlement negotiations in July 1999. In August 1999, the steelmaking and bar producing operations of USS/Kobe were combined with companies controlled by Blackstone Capital Partners II to form Republic. The tubular operations of USS/Kobe were transferred to a newly formed entity, Lorain Tubular Company, LLC (Lorain Tubular), which operated as a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe until December 31, 1999, when U. S. Steel purchased all of Kobes interest in Lorain Tubular. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Pipe Mills. U. S. Steel and EPA have agreed upon terms of settlement that include a cash penalty for U. S. Steel of $100,000 plus a supplemental environmental project to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Negotiations on the final terms and conditions of the consent decree are ongoing. Most of the matters raised by EPA relate to Republics facilities; however, air discharges from U. S. Steels No. 3 seamless pipe mill were also cited and U. S. Steel will be responsible for conducting a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. U. S. Steel will be responsible only for matters relating to its facilities. Issues related to Republic have been resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works U. S. Steel has agreed to the terms of a consent decree that will include the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the BOP; a civil penalty of $950,000; and a supplemental environmental project at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Great Lakes Works continues to identify and evaluate potential operating practices and facility improvements to reduce emissions. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $12.9 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through December 31, 2004. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $363,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. 28 Table of Contents Geneva Works In November 1989, the Utah Department of Environmental Quality issued a permit to U. S. Steel for the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments including facility wide corrective action at U. S. Steels former Geneva Works. The permit was administratively extended until May 14, 2004, when it was reissued to U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company (Geneva), the site owner. The permit allocates responsibility for corrective action between U. S. Steel and Geneva. U. S. Steel has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations on some areas of the facility for which U. S. Steel has responsibility under the permit. The remaining costs to prepare these work plans, implement field investigations and continue post closure care on the three hazardous waste impoundments are estimated to be approximately $5.6 million. On June 2, 2004, Geneva filed a motion in U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Utah to approve the amendment and assumption of the 1987 Asset Sales Agreement, the acceptance of the permit and the retention of a remediation contractor. On July 7, 2004, the motion was heard and granted providing for Genevas continuing involvement and funding of the remediation required by the permit. Other In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The site was owned by Armour Agriculture Chemical Company (now named Viad) from 1912 to 1968. U. S. Steel owned the site from 1968 to 1986 and sold the site to LaRoche Industries in 1986. The agreed order allocated responsibility for assessment and cleanup costs as follows: Viad 48 percent, U. S. Steel 26 percent and LaRoche 26 percent; and LaRoche was appointed to be the lead party responsible for conducting the cleanup. In March 2001, U. S. Steel was notified that LaRoche had filed for protection under bankruptcy law. On August 23, 2001, the allocation of responsibility for this site assessment and cleanup and the cost allocation was approved by the bankruptcy court in the LaRoche bankruptcy. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $801,000, based on the allocation factor of 26 percent. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas. The site is a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. U. S. Steel agreed in a Consent Order before KDHE, signed April 7, 2003, with KDHE and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Under that agreement, U. S. Steel and SSB each bear a 50 percent share of the costs of those responsibilities. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.2 million. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2005, are as follows: John J. Connelly 58 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 56 Executive Vice PresidentOperations Gretchen R. Haggerty 49 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer Christopher J. Navetta 56 President, U. S. Steel Kosice, s.r.o. Dan D. Sandman 56 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 55 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 57 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 50 President and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 55. As of January 31, 2005, there were 31,747 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2004, no unregistered shares were issued. 30 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2004(a) 2003 2002 2001(b) 2000(b) Statement of Operations Data: Revenues and other income(c)(d) $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 $ 6,375 $ 6,132 Income (loss) from operations(e) 1,580 (730 ) 128 (405 ) 104 Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) 1,077 (406 ) 61 (218 ) (21 ) Net income (loss)(e) $ 1,091 $ (463 ) $ 61 $ (218 ) $ (21 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(f) basic $ 9.47 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.37 (4.09 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Net income (loss)(f) basic 9.60 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) diluted 8.48 (4.64 ) .62 (2.45 ) (.24 ) Dividends paid(g) .20 .20 .20 .55 1.00 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 10,956 $ 7,837 $ 7,977 $ 8,337 $ 8,711 Capitalization: Notes payable $ $ $ $ $ 70 Long term debt including amount due within one year(h) 1,371 1,933 1,434 1,466 2,375 Preferred stock of subsidiary(i) 66 Trust Preferred Securities(i) 183 Stockholders equity 3,970 1,093 2,027 2,506 1,919 Total capitalization $ 5,341 $ 3,026 $ 3,461 $ 3,972 $ 4,613 (a) Includes minor revisions from the unaudited results reported on Form 8 K filed on January 25, 2005. Unaudited results for the year ended December 31, 2004, were income from operations of $1,584 million and net income of $1,085 million, or $8.44 per diluted share. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon). On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2000, and the income statement for each of the two years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, represent a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. Stockholders equity as of December 31, 2000, represents the combined net assets of the businesses comprising U. S. Steel (Marathons net investment in U. S. Steel). (c) Consists of revenues, dividend and investee income (loss), net gains on disposal of assets and other income (loss). (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in revenues and other income from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic, which was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. These were partially offset by reduced domestic tubular and plate shipment volumes. The increase in revenues and other income from 2000 to 2001 was mainly due to the inclusion of USSK revenues for the full year, the inclusion of Transtar revenues following the reorganization and higher income from investees relating to the gain on the Transtar reorganization; partially offset by lower domestic sheet, tubular and plate shipment volumes, lower average realized prices for domestic sheet products, and the $104 million impairment of receivables primarily from Republic. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. The decrease from 2000 to 2001 mainly resulted from lower prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; higher employee benefit costs; lower results from coal, iron ore pellet and tin operations; and increased asset impairments; partially offset by a full year of income from USSK and the gain on the Transtar reorganization. (f) See Note 11 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (g) For years 2000 and 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (h) For discussion of changes between the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease in long term debt from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to transactions related to the separation from Marathon. (i) At the separation from Marathon, these securities were either redeemed for cash by Marathon, or retained by Marathon and redeemed or repaid in January 2002. 31 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel is the second largest integrated steel producer in North America and has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume; selling prices; production costs; and value added product mix, since these products typically provide a higher profit margin than more commodity type steel products. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on its ability to implement the strategy described below. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, and U. S. Steel in particular, include the sustainability of higher steel prices; the steep increase in the cost of purchased raw materials; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has led to much of the recent volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States increased significantly during 2004 and could continue to increase depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, and consumption in the United States versus other regions. Strategy U. S. Steels business strategy is to continue to grow its investment in high end finishing assets, expand its global business platform, reduce its costs and become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets where management believes that U. S. Steels leadership position, production and processing capabilities and technical service provide a competitive advantage. These products include advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets for the construction industry, improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods. U. S. Steel continues to enhance its value added businesses through the upgrading and modernization of its key production facilities. U. S. Steel continues to be interested in participating in further consolidation of the North American steel industry if it would be beneficial to customers, shareholders, creditors and employees. U. S. Steel continues to explore additional opportunities for steel and raw materials investments in Europe. U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading European steel producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing 32 Table of Contents European markets, to grow its customer base in Europe by providing reliable delivery of high quality steel and to invest in value added facilities, including a planned automotive hot dip galvanizing line, to improve USSEs product mix. Expansion opportunities in Europe and North America would be attractive to U. S. Steel. South America, China and India are also possible areas of interest. In 2004, U. S. Steel concentrated on successfully integrating the businesses acquired in 2003 (discussed below), improving its balance sheet, increasing liquidity and continuing to strengthen its core steel businesses in order to be better positioned for further expansion and continued improvements to its existing facilities. An equity offering of 8 million common shares was completed in March 2004 for net proceeds of $294 million, which were primarily used to redeem certain senior notes. In April 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of its 10 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of its 9 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. In addition, USSK retired $281 million of long term debt in 2004. In total these debt repayments reduced annualized interest expense by approximately $50 million. Also during 2004, U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan and $30 million to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In October 2004, U. S. Steels $600 million revolving credit facility was amended and restated to: 1) extend the maturity to October 2009, 2) increase the borrowing base, 3) reduce the pricing for both borrowings and undrawn commitments, and 4) limit the application of many of the restrictive covenants. In February 2004, U. S. Steel continued to divest its non core assets when it sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. In 2003, U. S. Steel engaged in several significant transactions aimed at strengthening its core steel businesses. On May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy substantially all of the integrated steelmaking assets of National Steel Corporation (National). See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. The facilities that were acquired included two integrated steel plants, Granite City Works in Granite City, Illinois, and Great Lakes Works in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan; the Midwest Plant in Portage, Indiana; ProCoil Company LLC (ProCoil) in Canton, Michigan; a 50 percent equity interest in Double G Coatings Company, L.P. (Double G) near Jackson, Mississippi; the iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota (Keetac); and the Delray Connecting Railroad Company (Delray) in Michigan. This acquisition increased annual domestic raw steel production capability by 6.6 million net tons (tons) to 19.4 million tons. U. S. Steel and the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) reached a five year labor agreement that was effective upon the completion of the National acquisition and which covers both U. S. Steel and former National employees. This agreement allowed for a workforce restructuring aimed at achieving a 20 percent productivity improvement, expanded profit based variable compensation, provided cost sharing mechanisms for employee and retiree health care expenses, and provided a joint mechanism to consider further acquisitions of steel and steel related assets in North America. On September 12, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy Sartid a.d. (In Bankruptcy), an integrated steel company located in the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Sartid). U. S. Steel is operating these facilities as USSB. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. This acquisition increased annual European raw steel production capability by 2.4 million tons to 7.4 million tons. On June 30, 2003, U. S. Steel completed the sale of its coal mines and related assets (Mining Sale). As a result, U. S. Steel no longer mines any coal. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale. In a non monetary transaction in November 2003, U. S. Steels plate mill at Gary Works was exchanged for a pickling line located in East Chicago, Indiana. This was U. S. Steels only plate mill; however, U. S. Steel still produces plate in coil on its hot strip mills at Gary Works and at its European operations. 33 Table of Contents In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. Straightline Source (Straightline) was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2005. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total $230 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets for 2005 would have decreased or increased, respectively, the expected net periodic pension cost by $34 million. U. S. Steel determines the discount rate applied to pension and OPEB obligations at each year end or required interim period based on a number of external barometers used to measure the status of high quality bond rates consistent with the expected payout period of the obligations. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 6.0 percent to 5.75 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2005 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. Total OPEB costs in 2005 are expected to be approximately $109 million. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, a 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased pension and OPEB liabilities by $340 million and $110 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased pension and OPEB liabilities by $370 million and $120 million, respectively. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on 34 Table of Contents the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most salaried benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2005. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the escalation trend would have increased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $8 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the escalation trend would have decreased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $7 million in 2005. Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. The amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2004, was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of these net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004 and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2004, total accruals for environmental remediation were $123 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. 35 Table of Contents Segments During 2004, U. S. Steel had four reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE), Tubular Products (Tubular) and Real Estate. As of January 1, 2004, the residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. The application of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, resulted in U. S. Steel consolidating the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. (1314B Partnership) effective January 1, 2004. The results of the 1314B Partnership, which are included in the Flat rolled segment, were previously accounted for under the equity method. For further information, see Notes 4 and 18 to the Financial Statements. The National acquisition changed the composition of the Flat rolled segment and Other Businesses as described below, but did not result in a change in U. S. Steels reportable segments. Effective with the Mining Sale, Other Businesses are no longer involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. Effective with the acquisition of Sartid, the USSK segment was renamed USSE and includes the operating results of both USSK and USSB. Effective with the third quarter of 2003, the composition of the Flat rolled segment was changed to include the results of the coke operations at Clairton Works and Gary Works, which were previously reported in Other Businesses. This change reflected U. S. Steels management consolidations. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2003, benefit expenses for current retirees are separately identified and are no longer allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. These expenses include pensions, health care, life insurance and any profit based expenses for the benefit of retirees. Benefit expenses for active employees continue to be allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. Furthermore, U. S. Steel changed its methodology for allocating certain corporate costs. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for details. These changes were made so that operating results of U. S. Steels reportable segments will better reflect their current contribution and so that U. S. Steels segment results will be more comparable to those of its primary competitors who do not have significant fixed retiree obligations. Comparative results have been conformed to the current year presentation. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the service centers, conversion, transportation (including automotive), containers, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G, which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with Sartid. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service centers, appliance, containers, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed and developed for sale or lease. In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. In February 2004, U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. Prior to the disposition of these assets, results they generated were reported in the Real Estate segment. The Straightline segment included the operating results of U. S. Steels technology enabled distribution business that was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. 36 Table of Contents All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services, and engineering and consulting services. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of Keetac and Delray, which were acquired from National. Prior to the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer value for rounds supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and the transfer value of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs. Income The principal drivers of U. S. Steels financial results are price, volume, cost and product mix. To the extent that these factors are affected by industry conditions and the overall economic climate, revenues and income will reflect such conditions. Revenues and other income (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003(a) 2002 Revenues by product: Flat rolled steel products $ 11,549 $ 7,372 $ 5,115 Tubular 1,042 626 555 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore)(b) 705 419 513 Other(c) 673 911 766 Income (loss) from investees 57 (11 ) 33 Net gains on disposal of assets 57 85 29 Other income 25 56 43 Total revenues and other income $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Revenue from the sale of coal ceased with the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003. Includes revenue from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. Included revenue from steel mill products distribution prior to January 1, 2004, when the residual results of Straightline were included in Flat rolled; and revenue from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Total revenues and other income in 2004 increased $4,650 million compared to 2003. The increases primarily reflected higher average realized prices for Flat rolled, Tubular and European operations; higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet, tin and tubular products; higher shipment volumes for USSE; and higher revenues on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill and the absence of revenues from coal sales in 2004 due to the Mining Sale. Revenues for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues and other income in 2004 included a $43 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $36 million and other income of $7 million. Revenues and other income in 2003 included a net gain on disposal of assets of $55 million resulting from the timber contribution to the pension plan and a $47 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $13 million and other income of $34 million. Total revenues and other income in 2003 increased $2,404 million compared to 2002. The increase primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the Mining Sale, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. 37 Table of Contents Income from investees in 2002 included $39 million of insurance recoveries related to a 2001 fire at USS POSCO, other income included $38 million from a Federal excise tax refund, and gains on disposal of assets included $20 million from the sale of U. S. Steels shares of VSZ a.s. (VSZ). Profit based union payments Results for 2004 included costs of $241 million related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. Segment results for 2004 included $131 million of these costs and the balance was included in retiree benefit expenses. All of these costs are included in cost of revenues. Payment amounts per the agreement are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) to be contributed to a trust to assist National retirees with healthcare costs based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item are calculated in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $254 million in 2004, compared to $556 million in 2003 and a credit of $3 million in 2002. The costs in 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The credit in 2002 included $100 million of settlement losses. Excluding these one time charges, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. Excluding settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase of $212 million in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to a lower return on assets, a decline in the expected return on assets assumption and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $106 million in 2004, compared to $241 million in 2003 and $150 million in 2002. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. The increase in 2003 compared to 2002, excluding the curtailment charges, was primarily due to the addition of liabilities for National employees, changes in rate of retirement assumptions and a lower discount rate. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $18 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003 and 2002. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase in 2004 was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights and lower OPEB costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $673 million in 2003, compared to $418 million in 2002. The increase in 2003 was primarily due to higher pension and OPEB costs, increased compensation expense related 38 Table of Contents to stock appreciation rights, and higher expenses at USSE due mainly to unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange rate differences and increased business development expenses. These were partially offset by the favorable effect in 2003 of the absence of the impairment of retiree medical cost reimbursements receivable from Republic, which occurred in 2002. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for further details. Income (loss) from operations: (a) (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Flat rolled $ 1,185 $ (54 ) $ (84 ) USSE 394 203 110 Tubular 197 (25 ) (6 ) Real Estate 30 50 50 Straightline (70 ) (45 ) Total income (loss) from reportable segments 1,806 104 25 Other Businesses 28 (35 ) 33 Segment Income (Loss) from operations 1,834 69 58 Retiree benefit (expenses) credits (257 ) (107 ) 79 Other items not allocated to segments: Workforce reduction charges (including pension settlements) (17 ) (621 ) (100 ) Stock appreciation rights (23 ) (75 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Asset impairments (57 ) (14 ) Litigation items (25 ) 9 Costs related to Fairless shutdown (1 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire 39 Federal excise tax refund 38 Gain on VSZ share sale 20 Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,580 $ (730 ) $ 128 (a) See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices, which increased by $152 per ton; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. Flat rolled recorded a segment loss of $54 million in 2003, compared to a loss of $84 million in 2002. The decreased loss was primarily due to higher average realized prices and favorable effects resulting from ongoing cost improvement programs, the National acquisition and workforce reductions. These were partially offset by increased prices for raw materials, natural gas and utilities; higher employee benefit costs; increased costs for repair outages; and costs associated with the August 2003 power outage, which interrupted operations in Michigan and Ohio. 39 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income for 2004 was $394 million, compared to income of $203 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, which increased by $171 per ton, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. USSE segment income for the full year 2003 reflected an increase of $93 million from 2002. The improvement was primarily due to higher average realized prices as a result of favorable exchange rate effects and price increases, as well as higher shipment volumes. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, USSE shipments included those realized under toll conversion agreements with Sartid and, effective September 12, 2003, included all shipments from USSB (formerly Sartid). These improvements were partially offset by the unfavorable effect on costs of changes in foreign exchange rates; costs associated with the conversion and facility management agreements with Sartid, which were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition; and post acquisition operating losses at USSB including effects from a 38 day strike. Segment results for Tubular Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices, which increased by $233 per ton. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of tube rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which are transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. The segment loss for Tubular in 2003 reflected a decline of $19 million from 2002 primarily due to lower average realized prices for seamless products and higher natural gas prices, partially offset by increased shipment volumes for seamless products and income from the sale of Delta Tubular Processing. Segment results for Real Estate Real Estate segment income for 2004 was $30 million, down $20 million from 2003. The decrease primarily reflected lower mineral interest royalties as a result of the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Real Estate segment income for 2003 and 2002 was $50 million. Increased coal seam gas royalties were offset by lower real estate sales. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses recorded income of $28 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $35 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services. The loss for Other Businesses for 2003 reflected a decline of $68 million from income of $33 million in 2002. The decrease mainly reflected lower results from iron ore pellet operations due primarily to reduced shipment volumes, and lower results for coal operations and transportation services. Items not allocated to segments: Stock appreciation rights resulted in $23 million and $75 million of compensation expense accrued in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued over the last ten years and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. No stock appreciation rights were issued in 2004. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees, while the $100 million in 2002 reflected pension settlement losses related to retirements of personnel covered under the 40 Table of Contents non union qualified pension plan and the non qualified defined benefit pension plan. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels ongoing operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Asset impairments in 2002 were for charges related to reserves established against receivables exposure from financially distressed steel companies, primarily Republic. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of Real Estates remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain of Real Estates coal seam gas interests and from the Mining Sale. Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire represent U. S. Steels share of insurance recoveries in excess of facility repair costs for the cold reduction mill fire at USS POSCO, which occurred in May 2001. The final payment was received in December 2002. Federal excise tax refund represents the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales during the period 1993 through 1999. During 2002, U. S. Steel received cash and recognized pre tax income of $38 million, which is included in other income on the statement of operations. Of the $38 million received, $11 million represented interest. Net interest and other financial costs Net interest and other financial costs were $119 million in 2004, compared to $130 million in 2003 and $115 million in 2002. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. The decrease in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected lower interest on tax related liabilities, partially due to the more favorable 2004 adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes, more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and increased interest income. These favorable items were partially offset by a $33 million charge resulting from the early redemption of certain senior debt in April 2004. The $15 million increase from 2002 to 2003 was primarily due to interest on the new 9 3/4% senior notes, partially offset by more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and lower interest on tax related liabilities resulting from the favorable $17 million adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of both, and resulted in net gains of $32 million, $20 million and $16 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2004 was $351 million, compared to benefits in 2003 and 2002 of $454 million and $48 million, respectively. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefits in 2003 and 2002 included favorable effects relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million and $8 million, respectively. The change to a tax provision in 2004 as compared to tax benefits in the previous two years was primarily the result of pre tax income from domestic 41 Table of Contents operations recorded in 2004 compared to domestic pre tax losses in 2003 and 2002. The increase in the tax benefit in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to increased pre tax losses for domestic operations, including increased benefit costs. The Slovak Income Tax Act provides an income tax credit, which is available to USSK if certain conditions are met. In order to claim the tax credit in any year, 60 percent of USSKs sales must be export sales and USSK must reinvest the tax credits claimed in qualifying capital expenditures during the five years following the year in which the tax credit is claimed. The provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 100 percent of USSKs tax liability for years 2000 through 2004 and 50 percent of the current statutory rate of 19 percent for the years 2005 through 2009. Management believes that USSK fulfilled all of the necessary conditions for claiming the tax credit for the years for which it was claimed and anticipates meeting such requirements in 2005. As a result of claiming these tax credits and managements intent to reinvest earnings in foreign operations, virtually no income tax provision, except for the two $16 million tax payments discussed below, is recorded for USSK income. In connection with Slovakia joining the European Union (EU), the total tax credit granted to USSK for the period 2000 through 2009 was limited to $430 million, and USSK agreed to make tax payments of $16 million in 2004 and 2005, the first of which was paid in June 2004. Also, additional conditions for claiming the tax credit were established. These new conditions limit USSKs annual production of flat rolled product and its sales of all products into the 15 countries that were members of the EU prior to Slovakia and 9 other nations joining the EU in May 2004. Management believes the future impact of these changes will be minimal because Slovak tax laws have been modified and tax rates have been reduced since the acquisition of USSK; and the production and sales limits, which provide for annual increases through 2009, are not materially burdensome. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004, and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax liabilities of $314 million and $61 million, respectively. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2004, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the lack of historical information and the losses experienced in the months immediately following the acquisition of USSB. If USSB continues to generate income, the valuation allowance of $17 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2004 was $1,091 million, compared with a net loss of $463 million in 2003 and net income of $61 million in 2002. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Operations Flat rolled shipments were 15.6 million tons in 2004, 13.5 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from the facilities acquired from National, and 9.9 million tons in 2002. Tubular shipments were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 0.9 million tons in 2003 and 0.8 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 4 percent of U. S. Steels domestic shipments in 2004 and 2003, and 5 percent in 2002. USSE shipments were 5.0 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from USSB, and 4.0 million tons in 2002. 42 Table of Contents The acquisition of the assets of National on May 20, 2003, increased U. S. Steels stated annual raw steel production capability for domestic operations from 12.8 millions tons to 19.4 million tons. Raw steel production was 17.3 million tons in 2004, compared with 14.9 million tons in 2003, including production from the National assets following the acquisition, and 11.5 million tons in 2002. Raw steel production averaged 89 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 88 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the National capability on a prorata basis, and 90 percent of capability in 2002. All steel produced in U. S. Steels domestic facilities is continuous cast. Domestic capability utilization in 2004 and 2003 was reduced by scheduled blast furnace repair outages, which occurred in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2004 and in the second quarter of 2003. In 2002, domestic raw steel production was affected by poor market conditions during the first quarter, the acceleration into the fourth quarter of some blast furnace repair work that was originally scheduled to occur in 2003 and the high level of imports. The acquisition of Sartid on September 12, 2003, increased USSEs stated annual raw steel production capability from 5.0 million tons to 7.4 million tons. USSE raw steel production was 5.7 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including production from the Sartid assets following the acquisition, and 4.4 million tons in 2002. USSEs raw steel production averaged 77 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 84 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the Sartid capability on a prorata basis, and 88 percent in 2002. USSEs capability utilization in 2004 was reduced by the inclusion of USSB, as well as by operational difficulties with a blast furnace in Slovakia during the first quarter. USSEs capability utilization in 2003 was reduced by a blast furnace outage at USSK and the partial period inclusion of USSB as only about a third of its annual production capability was operational at the time of its acquisition in September 2003. USSBs capability utilization averaged 48 percent in 2004 and 20 percent in 2003 following the acquisition. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2004 increased $1,137 million from year end 2003 primarily due to increased cash balances and higher trade receivables. The increase in cash was mainly due to improved operations, $294 million of net proceeds from an equity offering and proceeds from the disposal of assets, partially offset by capital spending, the voluntary funding of benefit plans, the repayment of USSK debt and the redemption of certain senior notes. The increase in trade receivables primarily resulted from higher revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004, compared to last years fourth quarter, resulting mainly from higher steel prices. FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability is no longer required for this plan. Consequently, required entries were recorded that increased prepaid pensions by $2.48 billion, decreased the intangible pension asset by $440 million and resulted in a net credit to equity of $1.45 billion, which decreased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2004 decreased $325 million from year end 2003 and long term deferred income tax liabilities increased $592 million, primarily due to the elimination of federal and state deferred tax assets that were established in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2004 increased $404 million from year end 2003 mainly due to increases in accounts payable and payroll and benefits payable. The increase in accounts payable resulted mainly from higher raw materials costs and increased purchases of capital assets in late 2004 compared to the same period last year. The increase in payroll and benefits payable was primarily due to liabilities resulting from the profit based union payments that were previously discussed. Long term debt at December 31, 2004, was $1,363 million, $527 million lower than year end 2003. The decrease in debt was primarily due to the retirement of $281 million of USSK long term debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. 43 Table of Contents Employee benefits at December 31, 2004, decreased $257 million from year end 2003. Employee benefits at year end 2003 included the net pension liability related to an additional minimum liability adjustment for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan. In addition, OPEB liabilities decreased primarily because the sum of retiree medical benefit payments made in cash and a $30 million voluntary cash contribution to a trust exceeded the amount of retiree medical expense booked in 2004. Retiree medical expense was $60 million lower in 2004 as compared to 2003 due to recognition of the estimated effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and a cost cap negotiated with the USWA in 2003. For further information, see Estimated Future Benefit Payments in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Additional paid in capital increased by $354 million from the prior year end primarily reflecting U. S. Steels equity offering that was completed in March 2004. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities was $1,400 million in 2004, compared with $577 million in 2003. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items was partially offset by increased working capital requirements. Cash from operating activities in 2004 was reduced by $295 million of voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan, $186 million of OPEB payments, $50 million of payments to a multiemployer pension plan, $44 million of payments to pension plans not funded by trusts and $30 million of contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In 2003, OPEB payments were primarily funded by trusts. The $75 million in voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan in 2003 consisted of timber cutting rights valued at $59 million and $16 million of cash. Further contributions totaling $15 million were made to other smaller pension plans in 2003. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2006. Net cash provided from operating activities of $577 million in 2003 reflected an improvement of $298 million compared to 2002. The improvement resulted mainly from lower working capital requirements. Capital expenditures in 2004 were $579 million, compared with $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Major domestic projects in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills. Major projects at USSE in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $258 million, including $97 million for USSE. Major projects in 2002 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills and various projects at USSK, including continued work on the new tinning and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, completion of the scrap management and hot strip mill reheat furnace upgrade projects, commencement of work on a new dynamo line and installation of a vacuum degassing facility. U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2004, totaled $98 million compared with $23 million at December 31, 2003. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2004, was $257 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $135 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2004, leaving a balance of $22 million under this commitment. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements for further information. 44 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2005 are expected to be approximately $755 million, reflecting approximately $475 million for domestic operations and $280 million for European facilities. Domestic projects include the rebuild of the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, acquisition of mobile and mining equipment and coke oven thru wall repairs at Clairton Works and Gary Works. Projects in Slovakia include initial spending for a new automotive galvanizing line; and continuing work on air emissions reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include completion of the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace and steel production improvements. The preceding statement concerning expected 2005 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisitions in 2003 consisted of $839 million for the National assets, $29 million for USSB and a $37 million cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. The $38 million in 2002 was a cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. Disposal of assets in 2004 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of substantially all of the Real Estate segments remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Disposal of assets in 2003 consisted mainly of proceeds from the Mining Sale, cash collections on notes received in prior years asset disposals, the sale of the former National headquarters building and the sale of U. S. Steels interest in Delta Tubular Processing. Disposal of assets in 2002 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of U. S. Steels investment in stock of VSZ. Restricted cash Net deposits of $32 million in 2003 and $67 million in 2002 were mainly used to collateralize letters of credit to meet financial assurance requirements. Issuance of long term debt in 2003 resulted from the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May, net of deferred financing costs associated with the notes and the inventory facility. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2004 mainly reflected the retirement of long term USSK debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2003 and 2002 was mainly the USSK debt. Preferred stock issued in 2003 reflected net proceeds from the offering of 5 million shares of Series B Preferred. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004. The remaining amount mainly reflected proceeds from stock sales through the exercise of options. The 2003 amount primarily reflected sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. The 2002 amount primarily reflected $192 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in May 2002, as well as sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Dividends paid in 2004 were $39 million, compared with $35 million in 2003 and $19 million in 2002. Payments in all three periods reflected the quarterly dividend rate of five cents per common share. Dividends paid in 2004 also reflected a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share for the Series B Preferred. Dividends paid in 2003 also included an initial dividend of $1.206 per share for the Series B Preferred, which was paid on June 15, 2003, and a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share thereafter. The quarterly dividend rate per common share was increased to eight cents effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Debt and Convertible Preferred Shares Ratings On November 5, 2004, Moodys Investors Service upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating two steps, from B1 to Ba2. On November 12, 2004, Standard & Poors Ratings Services upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating from BB to BB and raised the preferred stock rating from B to B. 45 Table of Contents Liquidity In November 2001, U. S. Steel entered into a five year Receivables Purchase Agreement with financial institutions. U. S. Steel established a wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), which is a consolidated special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity that acquires, on a daily basis, eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries. USSR can sell an undivided interest in these receivables to certain commercial paper conduits. USSR pays the conduits a discount based on the conduits borrowing costs plus incremental fees, certain of which are determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, which increased fundings under the facility to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. Eligible receivables exclude certain obligors, amounts in excess of defined percentages for certain obligors, and amounts past due or due beyond a defined period. In addition, eligible receivables are calculated by deducting certain reserves, which are based on various determinants including concentration, dilution and loss percentages, as well as the credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had more than $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. While the term of the Receivables Purchase Agreement is five years, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed below and other debt obligations, any failure of USSR to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables, and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 23, 2005. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a four year revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by all domestic inventory and related assets (Inventory Facility), including receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The Inventory Facility contained a number of covenants that may have limited U. S. Steels ability to incur debt, make capital expenditures, sell assets, incur liens and make dividend and other restricted payments. The Inventory Facility also included a fixed charge coverage ratio test, which had to be met if availability was less than $100 million. In October 2004, the Inventory Facility was amended and restated to extend its maturity until October 2009, increase advance rates on semi finished and raw materials, reduce certain reserves, and modify pricing terms. In addition, many of the restrictive covenants apply now only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had in excess of $600 million of eligible inventory under the Inventory Facility, and utilized $6 million for letters of credit, reducing availability to $594 million. At December 31, 2004, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. In the third quarter of 2004, USSB entered into a new EUR 9.3 million (which approximated $12.7 million at December 31, 2004) committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility has a term of one year, and can be extended by mutual agreement of the parties for up to two additional one year periods. At December 31, 2004, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes), and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. 46 Table of Contents The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.2 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $118 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2004, an increase of $5 million during 2004, and expects to commit approximately $10 million to $20 million more during 2005. U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2004, in the amount of $42 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as obligations relating to Industrial Development and Environmental Improvement Bonds and Notes in the amount of $472 million and certain lease obligations totaling $190 million that were assumed by U. S. Steel from Marathon, may be declared immediately due and payable. 47 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2004: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents (a) $ 1,021 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSE credit facilities 69 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,184 (a) Excludes $16 million of cash, which resulted from the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership, because it is not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity at December 31, 2004 increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2004, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,373 $ 8 $ 33 $ 379 $ 953 Operating leases(b) 460 118 169 57 116 Capital commitments(c) 355 59 39 257 USSB Commitments 22 3 19 Environmental commitments(c) 123 21 102 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e ) 26 55 29 (e ) Other postretirement benefits (f ) 243 545 475 (f ) Total contractual obligations (g ) $ 475 $ 844 $ 959 (g ) (a) See Note 17 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2005 through 2009 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to 48 Table of Contents pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets which were managed by the Real Estate segment, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit plan in 2005. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $12 million to plans not funded by trusts in 2005. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2004, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 93 $ 65 $ 20 $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 21 4 17 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 28 28 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 25 8 1 14 2 Contingent liabilities: Marathon obligations(a)(d) 42 15 19 8 Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 1,627 1,001 383 152 91 Total commercial commitments $ 1,986 $ 1,093 $ 423 $ 174 $ 296 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of substrate and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In 2003, U. S. Steel entered into two off balance sheet arrangements for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. These operating lease arrangements are with special purpose trusts (SPTs). The SPTs financed the construction of the facilities and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficial owners of the SPTs. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of these entities. There are no guarantees of the obligations of these SPTs by U. S. Steel, and U. S. Steel would incur no significant penalties that would result in the reasonable assurance of continuation of the leases. U. S. Steels transactions with the SPTs are limited to the operating lease agreements, and the associated 49 Table of Contents lease expense is included in cost of revenues on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate these SPTs because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has unconditional supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 4 and Note 18 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 15 year agreement for the supply of electric power at Gary Works in Indiana, expiring in 2011. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of a 161 megawatt steam extraction turbine for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. Gary Works employees operate and maintain the facility and Gary Works supplies the steam for the turbine. This power is the first dispatched source of power to Gary Works. There are no take or pay obligations associated with this requirements contract and U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement results in an increase of approximately $60 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required 50 Table of Contents to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. 51 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Domestic: Capital $ 24 $ 8 $ 4 Compliance Operating & maintenance 241 206 171 Remediation(b) 18 38 36 Total Domestic $ 283 $ 252 $ 211 USSE: Capital $ 97 $ 22 $ 10 Compliance Operating & maintenance 8 10 8 Remediation(b) 3 3 1 Total USSE $ 108 $ 35 $ 19 Total U. S. Steel $ 391 $ 287 $ 230 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 21 percent of total capital expenditures in 2004, 10 percent in 2003 and 5 percent in 2002. Compliance expenditures represented 2 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2004, and 3 percent in 2003 and 2002. Remediation spending during 2002 to 2004 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2004, U. S. Steel accrued $34 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2004, was $123 million. Environmental spending in 2004 totaled $23 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2005. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $128 million in 2005, $69 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2005 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2006, including $90 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured electric cable; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. 53 Table of Contents Outlook for 2005 First quarter 2005 average realized prices for Flat rolled are expected to remain in line with or increase slightly from fourth quarter levels; however, results will be negatively affected by higher costs for raw materials, as well as slightly lower shipments. For full year 2005, Flat rolled shipments are expected to be about 15.4 million tons, reflecting the planned outage at the Gary No. 13 blast furnace. For USSE, first quarter average realized prices are expected to be moderately higher than in the fourth quarter of 2004, with shipments remaining about the same and costs for raw materials increasing significantly. USSE shipments for full year 2005 are projected to increase by about 15 percent to approximately 5.8 million net tons due mainly to higher operating levels at the Serbian facilities following the planned mid year startup of a second blast furnace. Shipments for Tubular in the first quarter of 2005 are expected to be at about the same level as in 2004s fourth quarter, while average realized prices are expected to continue to increase. Tubular announced price increases for certain products ranging from $50 to $250 per ton effective in January 2005. Full year shipments are expected to increase to 1.2 million tons. Costs will increase as a result of annual transfer value adjustments for semi finished steel, which comprehend raw material cost escalation, and higher costs for purchased rounds. First quarter 2005 results for Other Businesses will decline compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 due to normal seasonal effects at iron ore operations in Minnesota. In accordance with the previously announced settlement agreement with the City of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana regarding past years Gary Works personal property taxes, a Lake County appeals board is expected to consider a motion to resolve the appeals in accordance with the proposed settlement in early 2005. If the settlement is approved and becomes final as submitted, U. S. Steel would pay $44 million and would recognize a favorable income effect reflecting the reversal of liabilities accrued in excess of the settlement amount. Total costs in 2005 for domestic defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately the same as in 2004. For further information, see Critical Accounting Estimates Pensions and OPEB. This outlook contains forward looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices, tax settlements and employee benefit costs. Some factors, among others, that could affect market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both domestic operations and USSE include global product demand, prices and mix; global and company steel production levels; plant operating performance; the timing and completion of facility projects; natural gas prices and usage; raw materials availability and prices; changes in environmental, tax and other laws; employee strikes; power outages; legal proceedings regarding the proposed Gary Works tax settlement and U.S. and global economic performance and political developments. Domestic steel shipments and prices could be affected by import levels and actions taken by the U.S. Government and its agencies. Political factors in Europe that may affect USSEs results include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures. Future pension costs will be influenced by the market performance of plan assets, laws and regulations regarding discount rates and other calculations, and other economic factors. Future costs for active and retiree medical benefits will be influenced by medical inflation rates, future laws and regulations and retiree participation levels. Accounting Standards In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R) which addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that do not have sufficient equity investment to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. The Interpretation provides guidance related to identifying variable interest entities and determining whether such entities should be consolidated. It also provides guidance related to the initial and subsequent measurement of assets, liabilities and 54 Table of Contents noncontrolling interests in newly consolidated variable interest entities and requires disclosures for both the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and other beneficiaries of the entity. In accordance with FIN 46R, U. S. Steel consolidated the 1314B Partnership as of January 1, 2004. See further discussion in Note 18 to the Financial statements. In May 2004, FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106 2 (FSP FAS 106 2), Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Drug Act) was issued. FSP FAS 106 2 finalizes the accounting for the Drug Act and specifies that the effect of the Federal subsidy on a benefit plans accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) shall be accounted for as an actuarial experience gain. U. S. Steel accounted for the estimated effects of the Drug Act on its APBO as of December 31, 2003. Estimated savings of $450 million were included as an actuarial gain primarily due to changes in participation assumptions caused by the impact of the Drug Act in combination with the cost cap negotiated with the USWA in May 2003 and due to savings from reduced costs for mineworker participants because it is anticipated that the mineworkers union drug program will qualify for the Federal subsidy. Periodic postretirement benefit costs for 2004 were reduced by $60 million due to the estimated impact of these changes. There may also be significant clarifications of the Drug Act in future years that could significantly alter some or all of U. S. Steels assumptions. Furthermore, the participant withdrawal rates could occur at a different pace than has been assumed and the estimated savings could be greater or less than currently identified. No guidance has been issued regarding the effects of the Drug Act on U. S. Steels liabilities under the Coal Act of 1992, which is currently being accounted for under FAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 151 Inventory Costs (FAS 151) which amends ARB 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expenses, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges. In addition, FAS 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of FAS 151 are effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to inventory costs incurred on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect this Statement to have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, (FAS 123R) which is a revision of FAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, (FAS 123) and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. This Statement applies to U. S. Steel for all awards granted on or after July 1, 2005, and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after July 1, 2005, for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for pro forma disclosures. U. S. Steel expects the effect of adopting this Statement on 2005 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $15 million. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 152, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 66 and 67. This Statement amends FASB Statements No. 66 and 67 in association with the issuance of SOP 04 2, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, which applies to all real estate time sharing transactions. This Statement is effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to any real estate time sharing transactions occurring on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not have any real estate time sharing arrangements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. This Statement eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29 and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. This Statement specifies that a nonmonetary 55 Table of Contents exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of this Statement are effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this Statement prospectively to nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring on or after January 1, 2006. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, (FSP FAS 109 1) which states that the FASB staff believes that the qualified production activities deduction provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109 (FAS 109.) This FSP was effective upon issuance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which states that the FASB staff believes that the lack of clarification of certain provisions within the Act and the timing of the enactment necessitate a practical exemption to the FAS 109 requirement to reflect in the period of enactment the effect of a new tax law. Accordingly, an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying FAS 109. See Note 13 to the Financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas, heating oil and nonferrous metals and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. 56 Table of Contents Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pre tax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Decrease of(a) 2004 2003 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Zinc 2.9 7.2 1.2 3.1 Tin NA NA 0.0 0.1 Natural Gas 1.8 4.4 0.9 2.2 (a) The definition of a derivative instrument includes certain fixed price physical commodity contracts. Such instruments are included in the above table. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2004, may cause future pre tax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $4 million in 2004, compared to a gain of $1 million in 2003 and a loss of $6 million in 2002. These gains and losses were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For additional quantitative information relating to derivative commodity instruments, see Note 25 to the Financial Statements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2004 and 2003 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) As of December 31 2004 2003 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFair Value(c) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFairValue(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 8 $ $ 16 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f) $ 1,419 $ 50 $ 1,993 $ 90 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 23 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. (d) For additional information, see Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (e) Includes amounts due within one year. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 17 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels portfolio of long term debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $50 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases 57 Table of Contents in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $14.3 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $47.0 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2004 euro forward rates would result in a $6.1 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 58 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel is the second largest integrated steel producer in North America and has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume; selling prices; production costs; and value added product mix, since these products typically provide a higher profit margin than more commodity type steel products. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on its ability to implement the strategy described below. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, and U. S. Steel in particular, include the sustainability of higher steel prices; the steep increase in the cost of purchased raw materials; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has led to much of the recent volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States increased significantly during 2004 and could continue to increase depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, and consumption in the United States versus other regions. Strategy U. S. Steels business strategy is to continue to grow its investment in high end finishing assets, expand its global business platform, reduce its costs and become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets where management believes that U. S. Steels leadership position, production and processing capabilities and technical service provide a competitive advantage. These products include advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets for the construction industry, improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods. U. S. Steel continues to enhance its value added businesses through the upgrading and modernization of its key production facilities. U. S. Steel continues to be interested in participating in further consolidation of the North American steel industry if it would be beneficial to customers, shareholders, creditors and employees. U. S. Steel continues to explore additional opportunities for steel and raw materials investments in Europe. U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading European steel producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing 32 Table of Contents European markets, to grow its customer base in Europe by providing reliable delivery of high quality steel and to invest in value added facilities, including a planned automotive hot dip galvanizing line, to improve USSEs product mix. Expansion opportunities in Europe and North America would be attractive to U. S. Steel. South America, China and India are also possible areas of interest. In 2004, U. S. Steel concentrated on successfully integrating the businesses acquired in 2003 (discussed below), improving its balance sheet, increasing liquidity and continuing to strengthen its core steel businesses in order to be better positioned for further expansion and continued improvements to its existing facilities. An equity offering of 8 million common shares was completed in March 2004 for net proceeds of $294 million, which were primarily used to redeem certain senior notes. In April 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of its 10 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of its 9 3/4% senior notes, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. In addition, USSK retired $281 million of long term debt in 2004. In total these debt repayments reduced annualized interest expense by approximately $50 million. Also during 2004, U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan and $30 million to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In October 2004, U. S. Steels $600 million revolving credit facility was amended and restated to: 1) extend the maturity to October 2009, 2) increase the borrowing base, 3) reduce the pricing for both borrowings and undrawn commitments, and 4) limit the application of many of the restrictive covenants. In February 2004, U. S. Steel continued to divest its non core assets when it sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. In 2003, U. S. Steel engaged in several significant transactions aimed at strengthening its core steel businesses. On May 20, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy substantially all of the integrated steelmaking assets of National Steel Corporation (National). See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. The facilities that were acquired included two integrated steel plants, Granite City Works in Granite City, Illinois, and Great Lakes Works in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan; the Midwest Plant in Portage, Indiana; ProCoil Company LLC (ProCoil) in Canton, Michigan; a 50 percent equity interest in Double G Coatings Company, L.P. (Double G) near Jackson, Mississippi; the iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota (Keetac); and the Delray Connecting Railroad Company (Delray) in Michigan. This acquisition increased annual domestic raw steel production capability by 6.6 million net tons (tons) to 19.4 million tons. U. S. Steel and the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) reached a five year labor agreement that was effective upon the completion of the National acquisition and which covers both U. S. Steel and former National employees. This agreement allowed for a workforce restructuring aimed at achieving a 20 percent productivity improvement, expanded profit based variable compensation, provided cost sharing mechanisms for employee and retiree health care expenses, and provided a joint mechanism to consider further acquisitions of steel and steel related assets in North America. On September 12, 2003, U. S. Steel acquired out of bankruptcy Sartid a.d. (In Bankruptcy), an integrated steel company located in the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, and certain of its subsidiaries (collectively, Sartid). U. S. Steel is operating these facilities as USSB. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the acquisition. This acquisition increased annual European raw steel production capability by 2.4 million tons to 7.4 million tons. On June 30, 2003, U. S. Steel completed the sale of its coal mines and related assets (Mining Sale). As a result, U. S. Steel no longer mines any coal. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding the sale. In a non monetary transaction in November 2003, U. S. Steels plate mill at Gary Works was exchanged for a pickling line located in East Chicago, Indiana. This was U. S. Steels only plate mill; however, U. S. Steel still produces plate in coil on its hot strip mills at Gary Works and at its European operations. 33 Table of Contents In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. Straightline Source (Straightline) was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2005. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total $230 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets for 2005 would have decreased or increased, respectively, the expected net periodic pension cost by $34 million. U. S. Steel determines the discount rate applied to pension and OPEB obligations at each year end or required interim period based on a number of external barometers used to measure the status of high quality bond rates consistent with the expected payout period of the obligations. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 6.0 percent to 5.75 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2005 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. Total OPEB costs in 2005 are expected to be approximately $109 million. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased the estimated 2005 net periodic pension and OPEB costs by approximately $14 million and $3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2004, a 1/2 percentage point increase in the discount rate would have decreased pension and OPEB liabilities by $340 million and $110 million, respectively. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would have increased pension and OPEB liabilities by $370 million and $120 million, respectively. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on 34 Table of Contents the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most salaried benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2005. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. A 1/2 percentage point increase in the escalation trend would have increased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $8 million in 2005. A 1/2 percentage point decrease in the escalation trend would have decreased expected net periodic OPEB costs by approximately $7 million in 2005. Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. The amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded as of December 31, 2004, was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of these net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004 and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2004, total accruals for environmental remediation were $123 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. 35 Table of Contents Segments During 2004, U. S. Steel had four reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE), Tubular Products (Tubular) and Real Estate. As of January 1, 2004, the residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. The application of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) (FIN 46R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, resulted in U. S. Steel consolidating the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. (1314B Partnership) effective January 1, 2004. The results of the 1314B Partnership, which are included in the Flat rolled segment, were previously accounted for under the equity method. For further information, see Notes 4 and 18 to the Financial Statements. The National acquisition changed the composition of the Flat rolled segment and Other Businesses as described below, but did not result in a change in U. S. Steels reportable segments. Effective with the Mining Sale, Other Businesses are no longer involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. Effective with the acquisition of Sartid, the USSK segment was renamed USSE and includes the operating results of both USSK and USSB. Effective with the third quarter of 2003, the composition of the Flat rolled segment was changed to include the results of the coke operations at Clairton Works and Gary Works, which were previously reported in Other Businesses. This change reflected U. S. Steels management consolidations. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2003, benefit expenses for current retirees are separately identified and are no longer allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. These expenses include pensions, health care, life insurance and any profit based expenses for the benefit of retirees. Benefit expenses for active employees continue to be allocated to the reportable segments and Other Businesses. Furthermore, U. S. Steel changed its methodology for allocating certain corporate costs. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for details. These changes were made so that operating results of U. S. Steels reportable segments will better reflect their current contribution and so that U. S. Steels segment results will be more comparable to those of its primary competitors who do not have significant fixed retiree obligations. Comparative results have been conformed to the current year presentation. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve customers in the service centers, conversion, transportation (including automotive), containers, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G, which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with Sartid. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service centers, appliance, containers, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemicals markets. The Real Estate segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels residential, commercial and industrial real estate that is managed and developed for sale or lease. In April 2003, U. S. Steel sold certain coal seam gas interests in Alabama for $34 million. In December 2003, U. S. Steel contributed timber cutting rights with an appraised value of $59 million to its defined benefit pension plan. In February 2004, U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by the Real Estate segment for $67 million. Prior to the disposition of these assets, results they generated were reported in the Real Estate segment. The Straightline segment included the operating results of U. S. Steels technology enabled distribution business that was closed to new business effective December 31, 2003, and was shut down in 2004. 36 Table of Contents All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services, and engineering and consulting services. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of Keetac and Delray, which were acquired from National. Prior to the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer value for rounds supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and the transfer value of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs. Income The principal drivers of U. S. Steels financial results are price, volume, cost and product mix. To the extent that these factors are affected by industry conditions and the overall economic climate, revenues and income will reflect such conditions. Revenues and other income (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003(a) 2002 Revenues by product: Flat rolled steel products $ 11,549 $ 7,372 $ 5,115 Tubular 1,042 626 555 Raw materials (coal, coke and iron ore)(b) 705 419 513 Other(c) 673 911 766 Income (loss) from investees 57 (11 ) 33 Net gains on disposal of assets 57 85 29 Other income 25 56 43 Total revenues and other income $ 14,108 $ 9,458 $ 7,054 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Revenue from the sale of coal ceased with the Mining Sale on June 30, 2003. Includes revenue from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) Includes revenue from the sale of steel production by products; transportation services; the management and development of real estate; and engineering and consulting services. Included revenue from steel mill products distribution prior to January 1, 2004, when the residual results of Straightline were included in Flat rolled; and revenue from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Total revenues and other income in 2004 increased $4,650 million compared to 2003. The increases primarily reflected higher average realized prices for Flat rolled, Tubular and European operations; higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet, tin and tubular products; higher shipment volumes for USSE; and higher revenues on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill and the absence of revenues from coal sales in 2004 due to the Mining Sale. Revenues for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. Revenues and other income in 2004 included a $43 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $36 million and other income of $7 million. Revenues and other income in 2003 included a net gain on disposal of assets of $55 million resulting from the timber contribution to the pension plan and a $47 million favorable effect resulting from the sale of certain assets, consisting of a gain on disposal of assets of $13 million and other income of $34 million. Total revenues and other income in 2003 increased $2,404 million compared to 2002. The increase primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the Mining Sale, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. 37 Table of Contents Income from investees in 2002 included $39 million of insurance recoveries related to a 2001 fire at USS POSCO, other income included $38 million from a Federal excise tax refund, and gains on disposal of assets included $20 million from the sale of U. S. Steels shares of VSZ a.s. (VSZ). Profit based union payments Results for 2004 included costs of $241 million related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. Segment results for 2004 included $131 million of these costs and the balance was included in retiree benefit expenses. All of these costs are included in cost of revenues. Payment amounts per the agreement are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) to be contributed to a trust to assist National retirees with healthcare costs based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item are calculated in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $254 million in 2004, compared to $556 million in 2003 and a credit of $3 million in 2002. The costs in 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The credit in 2002 included $100 million of settlement losses. Excluding these one time charges, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. Excluding settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase of $212 million in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to a lower return on assets, a decline in the expected return on assets assumption and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $106 million in 2004, compared to $241 million in 2003 and $150 million in 2002. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. The increase in 2003 compared to 2002, excluding the curtailment charges, was primarily due to the addition of liabilities for National employees, changes in rate of retirement assumptions and a lower discount rate. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $18 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003 and 2002. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase in 2004 was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights and lower OPEB costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $673 million in 2003, compared to $418 million in 2002. The increase in 2003 was primarily due to higher pension and OPEB costs, increased compensation expense related 38 Table of Contents to stock appreciation rights, and higher expenses at USSE due mainly to unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange rate differences and increased business development expenses. These were partially offset by the favorable effect in 2003 of the absence of the impairment of retiree medical cost reimbursements receivable from Republic, which occurred in 2002. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 9 to the Financial Statements for further details. Income (loss) from operations: (a) (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Flat rolled $ 1,185 $ (54 ) $ (84 ) USSE 394 203 110 Tubular 197 (25 ) (6 ) Real Estate 30 50 50 Straightline (70 ) (45 ) Total income (loss) from reportable segments 1,806 104 25 Other Businesses 28 (35 ) 33 Segment Income (Loss) from operations 1,834 69 58 Retiree benefit (expenses) credits (257 ) (107 ) 79 Other items not allocated to segments: Workforce reduction charges (including pension settlements) (17 ) (621 ) (100 ) Stock appreciation rights (23 ) (75 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Asset impairments (57 ) (14 ) Litigation items (25 ) 9 Costs related to Fairless shutdown (1 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire 39 Federal excise tax refund 38 Gain on VSZ share sale 20 Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,580 $ (730 ) $ 128 (a) See Note 5 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices, which increased by $152 per ton; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. Flat rolled recorded a segment loss of $54 million in 2003, compared to a loss of $84 million in 2002. The decreased loss was primarily due to higher average realized prices and favorable effects resulting from ongoing cost improvement programs, the National acquisition and workforce reductions. These were partially offset by increased prices for raw materials, natural gas and utilities; higher employee benefit costs; increased costs for repair outages; and costs associated with the August 2003 power outage, which interrupted operations in Michigan and Ohio. 39 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income for 2004 was $394 million, compared to income of $203 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, which increased by $171 per ton, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. USSE segment income for the full year 2003 reflected an increase of $93 million from 2002. The improvement was primarily due to higher average realized prices as a result of favorable exchange rate effects and price increases, as well as higher shipment volumes. Beginning March 8, 2002 and prior to September 12, 2003, USSE shipments included those realized under toll conversion agreements with Sartid and, effective September 12, 2003, included all shipments from USSB (formerly Sartid). These improvements were partially offset by the unfavorable effect on costs of changes in foreign exchange rates; costs associated with the conversion and facility management agreements with Sartid, which were terminated in conjunction with the acquisition; and post acquisition operating losses at USSB including effects from a 38 day strike. Segment results for Tubular Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices, which increased by $233 per ton. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of tube rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which are transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. The segment loss for Tubular in 2003 reflected a decline of $19 million from 2002 primarily due to lower average realized prices for seamless products and higher natural gas prices, partially offset by increased shipment volumes for seamless products and income from the sale of Delta Tubular Processing. Segment results for Real Estate Real Estate segment income for 2004 was $30 million, down $20 million from 2003. The decrease primarily reflected lower mineral interest royalties as a result of the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by Real Estate. Real Estate segment income for 2003 and 2002 was $50 million. Increased coal seam gas royalties were offset by lower real estate sales. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses recorded income of $28 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $35 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services. The loss for Other Businesses for 2003 reflected a decline of $68 million from income of $33 million in 2002. The decrease mainly reflected lower results from iron ore pellet operations due primarily to reduced shipment volumes, and lower results for coal operations and transportation services. Items not allocated to segments: Stock appreciation rights resulted in $23 million and $75 million of compensation expense accrued in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued over the last ten years and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. No stock appreciation rights were issued in 2004. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees, while the $100 million in 2002 reflected pension settlement losses related to retirements of personnel covered under the 40 Table of Contents non union qualified pension plan and the non qualified defined benefit pension plan. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels ongoing operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Asset impairments in 2002 were for charges related to reserves established against receivables exposure from financially distressed steel companies, primarily Republic. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of Real Estates remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain of Real Estates coal seam gas interests and from the Mining Sale. Insurance recoveries related to USS POSCO fire represent U. S. Steels share of insurance recoveries in excess of facility repair costs for the cold reduction mill fire at USS POSCO, which occurred in May 2001. The final payment was received in December 2002. Federal excise tax refund represents the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales during the period 1993 through 1999. During 2002, U. S. Steel received cash and recognized pre tax income of $38 million, which is included in other income on the statement of operations. Of the $38 million received, $11 million represented interest. Net interest and other financial costs Net interest and other financial costs were $119 million in 2004, compared to $130 million in 2003 and $115 million in 2002. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. The decrease in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected lower interest on tax related liabilities, partially due to the more favorable 2004 adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes, more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and increased interest income. These favorable items were partially offset by a $33 million charge resulting from the early redemption of certain senior debt in April 2004. The $15 million increase from 2002 to 2003 was primarily due to interest on the new 9 3/4% senior notes, partially offset by more favorable changes in foreign currency effects and lower interest on tax related liabilities resulting from the favorable $17 million adjustment related to the settlement of prior years taxes. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which is the functional currency of both, and resulted in net gains of $32 million, $20 million and $16 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2004 was $351 million, compared to benefits in 2003 and 2002 of $454 million and $48 million, respectively. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefits in 2003 and 2002 included favorable effects relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million and $8 million, respectively. The change to a tax provision in 2004 as compared to tax benefits in the previous two years was primarily the result of pre tax income from domestic 41 Table of Contents operations recorded in 2004 compared to domestic pre tax losses in 2003 and 2002. The increase in the tax benefit in 2003 compared to 2002 was primarily due to increased pre tax losses for domestic operations, including increased benefit costs. The Slovak Income Tax Act provides an income tax credit, which is available to USSK if certain conditions are met. In order to claim the tax credit in any year, 60 percent of USSKs sales must be export sales and USSK must reinvest the tax credits claimed in qualifying capital expenditures during the five years following the year in which the tax credit is claimed. The provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 100 percent of USSKs tax liability for years 2000 through 2004 and 50 percent of the current statutory rate of 19 percent for the years 2005 through 2009. Management believes that USSK fulfilled all of the necessary conditions for claiming the tax credit for the years for which it was claimed and anticipates meeting such requirements in 2005. As a result of claiming these tax credits and managements intent to reinvest earnings in foreign operations, virtually no income tax provision, except for the two $16 million tax payments discussed below, is recorded for USSK income. In connection with Slovakia joining the European Union (EU), the total tax credit granted to USSK for the period 2000 through 2009 was limited to $430 million, and USSK agreed to make tax payments of $16 million in 2004 and 2005, the first of which was paid in June 2004. Also, additional conditions for claiming the tax credit were established. These new conditions limit USSKs annual production of flat rolled product and its sales of all products into the 15 countries that were members of the EU prior to Slovakia and 9 other nations joining the EU in May 2004. Management believes the future impact of these changes will be minimal because Slovak tax laws have been modified and tax rates have been reduced since the acquisition of USSK; and the production and sales limits, which provide for annual increases through 2009, are not materially burdensome. While U. S. Steel is currently studying the impact of the one time favorable foreign dividend provisions recently enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as of December 31, 2004, and based on the tax laws in effect at that time, it was U. S. Steels intention to continue to indefinitely reinvest undistributed foreign earnings and, accordingly, no deferred tax liability has been recorded in connection therewith. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2004 amounted to approximately $952 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $300 million would be required. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax liabilities of $314 million and $61 million, respectively. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2004, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $36 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $48 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the lack of historical information and the losses experienced in the months immediately following the acquisition of USSB. If USSB continues to generate income, the valuation allowance of $17 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2004 was $1,091 million, compared with a net loss of $463 million in 2003 and net income of $61 million in 2002. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Operations Flat rolled shipments were 15.6 million tons in 2004, 13.5 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from the facilities acquired from National, and 9.9 million tons in 2002. Tubular shipments were 1.1 million tons in 2004, 0.9 million tons in 2003 and 0.8 million tons in 2002. Exports accounted for approximately 4 percent of U. S. Steels domestic shipments in 2004 and 2003, and 5 percent in 2002. USSE shipments were 5.0 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including partial year shipments from USSB, and 4.0 million tons in 2002. 42 Table of Contents The acquisition of the assets of National on May 20, 2003, increased U. S. Steels stated annual raw steel production capability for domestic operations from 12.8 millions tons to 19.4 million tons. Raw steel production was 17.3 million tons in 2004, compared with 14.9 million tons in 2003, including production from the National assets following the acquisition, and 11.5 million tons in 2002. Raw steel production averaged 89 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 88 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the National capability on a prorata basis, and 90 percent of capability in 2002. All steel produced in U. S. Steels domestic facilities is continuous cast. Domestic capability utilization in 2004 and 2003 was reduced by scheduled blast furnace repair outages, which occurred in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2004 and in the second quarter of 2003. In 2002, domestic raw steel production was affected by poor market conditions during the first quarter, the acceleration into the fourth quarter of some blast furnace repair work that was originally scheduled to occur in 2003 and the high level of imports. The acquisition of Sartid on September 12, 2003, increased USSEs stated annual raw steel production capability from 5.0 million tons to 7.4 million tons. USSE raw steel production was 5.7 million tons in 2004, 4.8 million tons in 2003, including production from the Sartid assets following the acquisition, and 4.4 million tons in 2002. USSEs raw steel production averaged 77 percent of capability in 2004, compared to 84 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the Sartid capability on a prorata basis, and 88 percent in 2002. USSEs capability utilization in 2004 was reduced by the inclusion of USSB, as well as by operational difficulties with a blast furnace in Slovakia during the first quarter. USSEs capability utilization in 2003 was reduced by a blast furnace outage at USSK and the partial period inclusion of USSB as only about a third of its annual production capability was operational at the time of its acquisition in September 2003. USSBs capability utilization averaged 48 percent in 2004 and 20 percent in 2003 following the acquisition. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2004 increased $1,137 million from year end 2003 primarily due to increased cash balances and higher trade receivables. The increase in cash was mainly due to improved operations, $294 million of net proceeds from an equity offering and proceeds from the disposal of assets, partially offset by capital spending, the voluntary funding of benefit plans, the repayment of USSK debt and the redemption of certain senior notes. The increase in trade receivables primarily resulted from higher revenues in the fourth quarter of 2004, compared to last years fourth quarter, resulting mainly from higher steel prices. FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability is no longer required for this plan. Consequently, required entries were recorded that increased prepaid pensions by $2.48 billion, decreased the intangible pension asset by $440 million and resulted in a net credit to equity of $1.45 billion, which decreased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2004 decreased $325 million from year end 2003 and long term deferred income tax liabilities increased $592 million, primarily due to the elimination of federal and state deferred tax assets that were established in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2004 increased $404 million from year end 2003 mainly due to increases in accounts payable and payroll and benefits payable. The increase in accounts payable resulted mainly from higher raw materials costs and increased purchases of capital assets in late 2004 compared to the same period last year. The increase in payroll and benefits payable was primarily due to liabilities resulting from the profit based union payments that were previously discussed. Long term debt at December 31, 2004, was $1,363 million, $527 million lower than year end 2003. The decrease in debt was primarily due to the retirement of $281 million of USSK long term debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. 43 Table of Contents Employee benefits at December 31, 2004, decreased $257 million from year end 2003. Employee benefits at year end 2003 included the net pension liability related to an additional minimum liability adjustment for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan. In addition, OPEB liabilities decreased primarily because the sum of retiree medical benefit payments made in cash and a $30 million voluntary cash contribution to a trust exceeded the amount of retiree medical expense booked in 2004. Retiree medical expense was $60 million lower in 2004 as compared to 2003 due to recognition of the estimated effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 and a cost cap negotiated with the USWA in 2003. For further information, see Estimated Future Benefit Payments in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Additional paid in capital increased by $354 million from the prior year end primarily reflecting U. S. Steels equity offering that was completed in March 2004. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities was $1,400 million in 2004, compared with $577 million in 2003. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items was partially offset by increased working capital requirements. Cash from operating activities in 2004 was reduced by $295 million of voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan, $186 million of OPEB payments, $50 million of payments to a multiemployer pension plan, $44 million of payments to pension plans not funded by trusts and $30 million of contributions to a Voluntary Employee Benefit Association trust. In 2003, OPEB payments were primarily funded by trusts. The $75 million in voluntary contributions to the main defined benefit pension plan in 2003 consisted of timber cutting rights valued at $59 million and $16 million of cash. Further contributions totaling $15 million were made to other smaller pension plans in 2003. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2006. Net cash provided from operating activities of $577 million in 2003 reflected an improvement of $298 million compared to 2002. The improvement resulted mainly from lower working capital requirements. Capital expenditures in 2004 were $579 million, compared with $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Major domestic projects in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills. Major projects at USSE in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. Capital expenditures in 2002 were $258 million, including $97 million for USSE. Major projects in 2002 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Pipe Mills and various projects at USSK, including continued work on the new tinning and continuous annealing lines and the sinter plant dedusting project, completion of the scrap management and hot strip mill reheat furnace upgrade projects, commencement of work on a new dynamo line and installation of a vacuum degassing facility. U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2004, totaled $98 million compared with $23 million at December 31, 2003. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2004, was $257 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $135 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2004, leaving a balance of $22 million under this commitment. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements for further information. 44 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2005 are expected to be approximately $755 million, reflecting approximately $475 million for domestic operations and $280 million for European facilities. Domestic projects include the rebuild of the Gary Works No. 13 blast furnace, acquisition of mobile and mining equipment and coke oven thru wall repairs at Clairton Works and Gary Works. Projects in Slovakia include initial spending for a new automotive galvanizing line; and continuing work on air emissions reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include completion of the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace and steel production improvements. The preceding statement concerning expected 2005 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisitions in 2003 consisted of $839 million for the National assets, $29 million for USSB and a $37 million cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. The $38 million in 2002 was a cash payment related to the purchase of USSK. Disposal of assets in 2004 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of substantially all of the Real Estate segments remaining mineral interests and certain real estate interests. Disposal of assets in 2003 consisted mainly of proceeds from the Mining Sale, cash collections on notes received in prior years asset disposals, the sale of the former National headquarters building and the sale of U. S. Steels interest in Delta Tubular Processing. Disposal of assets in 2002 consisted mainly of proceeds from the sale of U. S. Steels investment in stock of VSZ. Restricted cash Net deposits of $32 million in 2003 and $67 million in 2002 were mainly used to collateralize letters of credit to meet financial assurance requirements. Issuance of long term debt in 2003 resulted from the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May, net of deferred financing costs associated with the notes and the inventory facility. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2004 mainly reflected the retirement of long term USSK debt and the early redemption of certain senior notes. For discussion, see Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2003 and 2002 was mainly the USSK debt. Preferred stock issued in 2003 reflected net proceeds from the offering of 5 million shares of Series B Preferred. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004. The remaining amount mainly reflected proceeds from stock sales through the exercise of options. The 2003 amount primarily reflected sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. The 2002 amount primarily reflected $192 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in May 2002, as well as sales through the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan. Dividends paid in 2004 were $39 million, compared with $35 million in 2003 and $19 million in 2002. Payments in all three periods reflected the quarterly dividend rate of five cents per common share. Dividends paid in 2004 also reflected a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share for the Series B Preferred. Dividends paid in 2003 also included an initial dividend of $1.206 per share for the Series B Preferred, which was paid on June 15, 2003, and a quarterly dividend rate of $0.875 per share thereafter. The quarterly dividend rate per common share was increased to eight cents effective with the March 2005 payment. Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Debt and Convertible Preferred Shares Ratings On November 5, 2004, Moodys Investors Service upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating two steps, from B1 to Ba2. On November 12, 2004, Standard & Poors Ratings Services upgraded U. S. Steels senior unsecured debt rating from BB to BB and raised the preferred stock rating from B to B. 45 Table of Contents Liquidity In November 2001, U. S. Steel entered into a five year Receivables Purchase Agreement with financial institutions. U. S. Steel established a wholly owned subsidiary, U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), which is a consolidated special purpose, bankruptcy remote entity that acquires, on a daily basis, eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries. USSR can sell an undivided interest in these receivables to certain commercial paper conduits. USSR pays the conduits a discount based on the conduits borrowing costs plus incremental fees, certain of which are determined by credit ratings of U. S. Steel. See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, which increased fundings under the facility to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. Eligible receivables exclude certain obligors, amounts in excess of defined percentages for certain obligors, and amounts past due or due beyond a defined period. In addition, eligible receivables are calculated by deducting certain reserves, which are based on various determinants including concentration, dilution and loss percentages, as well as the credit ratings of U. S. Steel. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had more than $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. While the term of the Receivables Purchase Agreement is five years, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed below and other debt obligations, any failure of USSR to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables, and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 23, 2005. In May 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a four year revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by all domestic inventory and related assets (Inventory Facility), including receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement. The Inventory Facility contained a number of covenants that may have limited U. S. Steels ability to incur debt, make capital expenditures, sell assets, incur liens and make dividend and other restricted payments. The Inventory Facility also included a fixed charge coverage ratio test, which had to be met if availability was less than $100 million. In October 2004, the Inventory Facility was amended and restated to extend its maturity until October 2009, increase advance rates on semi finished and raw materials, reduce certain reserves, and modify pricing terms. In addition, many of the restrictive covenants apply now only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had in excess of $600 million of eligible inventory under the Inventory Facility, and utilized $6 million for letters of credit, reducing availability to $594 million. At December 31, 2004, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. In the third quarter of 2004, USSB entered into a new EUR 9.3 million (which approximated $12.7 million at December 31, 2004) committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility has a term of one year, and can be extended by mutual agreement of the parties for up to two additional one year periods. At December 31, 2004, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes), and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. 46 Table of Contents The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.2 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2004. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2004. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $118 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2004, an increase of $5 million during 2004, and expects to commit approximately $10 million to $20 million more during 2005. U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2004, in the amount of $42 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as obligations relating to Industrial Development and Environmental Improvement Bonds and Notes in the amount of $472 million and certain lease obligations totaling $190 million that were assumed by U. S. Steel from Marathon, may be declared immediately due and payable. 47 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2004: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents (a) $ 1,021 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSE credit facilities 69 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,184 (a) Excludes $16 million of cash, which resulted from the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership, because it is not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity at December 31, 2004 increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2004, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,373 $ 8 $ 33 $ 379 $ 953 Operating leases(b) 460 118 169 57 116 Capital commitments(c) 355 59 39 257 USSB Commitments 22 3 19 Environmental commitments(c) 123 21 102 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e ) 26 55 29 (e ) Other postretirement benefits (f ) 243 545 475 (f ) Total contractual obligations (g ) $ 475 $ 844 $ 959 (g ) (a) See Note 17 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2005 through 2009 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to 48 Table of Contents pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets which were managed by the Real Estate segment, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit plan in 2005. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $12 million to plans not funded by trusts in 2005. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2004, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2005 2006through2007 2008through2009 Beyond 2009 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 93 $ 65 $ 20 $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 21 4 17 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 28 28 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 25 8 1 14 2 Contingent liabilities: Marathon obligations(a)(d) 42 15 19 8 Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 1,627 1,001 383 152 91 Total commercial commitments $ 1,986 $ 1,093 $ 423 $ 174 $ 296 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of substrate and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In 2003, U. S. Steel entered into two off balance sheet arrangements for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. These operating lease arrangements are with special purpose trusts (SPTs). The SPTs financed the construction of the facilities and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficial owners of the SPTs. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of these entities. There are no guarantees of the obligations of these SPTs by U. S. Steel, and U. S. Steel would incur no significant penalties that would result in the reasonable assurance of continuation of the leases. U. S. Steels transactions with the SPTs are limited to the operating lease agreements, and the associated 49 Table of Contents lease expense is included in cost of revenues on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate these SPTs because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has unconditional supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 4 and Note 18 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 15 year agreement for the supply of electric power at Gary Works in Indiana, expiring in 2011. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of a 161 megawatt steam extraction turbine for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. Gary Works employees operate and maintain the facility and Gary Works supplies the steam for the turbine. This power is the first dispatched source of power to Gary Works. There are no take or pay obligations associated with this requirements contract and U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement results in an increase of approximately $60 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required 50 Table of Contents to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK also has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance, and expects to do so by 2006. In April 2004, USSK submitted information to the Slovak government regarding emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) from U. S. Steels plant in Kosice. This information request related to requirements imposed by the European Commission (EC) to establish carbon dioxide emission limits for member countries in preparation for the commencement of CO2 emissions trading in January 2005. Slovakia was required to submit to the EC for approval a national allocation plan (NAP) specifying its total CO2 allowances in tons of emissions for the period 2005 to 2007. Slovakia submitted its proposed NAP to the EC in early July 2004. On October 20, 2004, the EC approved an NAP for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias original proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent. On December 20, 2004, USSK filed an application for annulment of the EC&acute;s October 20 decision in the Court of First Instance of the European Communities (CFI) contesting the ECs reduction of Slovakias original proposed NAP. USSKs application requests that the CFI maintain the CO2 emissions allowances granted by the ECs October 20, 2004 decision pending the outcome of this litigation. On February 3, 2005, USSK was advised informally by the Slovak Ministry of the Environment (Ministry) that it can expect to receive an amount of CO2 allowances for the period 2005 to 2007 that is approximately 8 percent less than the amount for USSK included in Slovakias proposed NAP submitted in July 2004. Following publication on the Ministry web site of the reduced CO2 allowances proposed for individual installations, on February 11, 2005, USSK filed comments with the Ministry objecting to any reduction in the CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. The Slovak Minister of Environment announced, on February 16, 2005, that Slovakia will not challenge at the European Court of Justice the ECs October 20 decision and that industrial installations in Slovakia would receive their CO2 allocations for the period 2005 to 2007 within a week. As of the filing of this report on Form 10 K, however, USSK had not been advised by the Ministry of its CO2 allocation. The legal action by USSK against the EC will not stay the final decision of the Ministry concerning USSK&acute;s allowances of CO2. If the expected 8 percent reduction is confirmed by the Ministry, there are a number of alternatives available to USSK ranging from the potential purchasing of CO2 allowances to reducing steel production. The best alternative for USSK may vary depending upon a number of factors and it is not possible at this time to predict the results. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. An environmental baseline study has been conducted at USSBs facilities. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of that study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. 51 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Domestic: Capital $ 24 $ 8 $ 4 Compliance Operating & maintenance 241 206 171 Remediation(b) 18 38 36 Total Domestic $ 283 $ 252 $ 211 USSE: Capital $ 97 $ 22 $ 10 Compliance Operating & maintenance 8 10 8 Remediation(b) 3 3 1 Total USSE $ 108 $ 35 $ 19 Total U. S. Steel $ 391 $ 287 $ 230 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 21 percent of total capital expenditures in 2004, 10 percent in 2003 and 5 percent in 2002. Compliance expenditures represented 2 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2004, and 3 percent in 2003 and 2002. Remediation spending during 2002 to 2004 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2004, U. S. Steel accrued $34 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2004, was $123 million. Environmental spending in 2004 totaled $23 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2005. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $128 million in 2005, $69 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2005 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2006, including $90 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 11,000 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 10,300, or approximately 94 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 13 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured electric cable; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. 53 Table of Contents Outlook for 2005 First quarter 2005 average realized prices for Flat rolled are expected to remain in line with or increase slightly from fourth quarter levels; however, results will be negatively affected by higher costs for raw materials, as well as slightly lower shipments. For full year 2005, Flat rolled shipments are expected to be about 15.4 million tons, reflecting the planned outage at the Gary No. 13 blast furnace. For USSE, first quarter average realized prices are expected to be moderately higher than in the fourth quarter of 2004, with shipments remaining about the same and costs for raw materials increasing significantly. USSE shipments for full year 2005 are projected to increase by about 15 percent to approximately 5.8 million net tons due mainly to higher operating levels at the Serbian facilities following the planned mid year startup of a second blast furnace. Shipments for Tubular in the first quarter of 2005 are expected to be at about the same level as in 2004s fourth quarter, while average realized prices are expected to continue to increase. Tubular announced price increases for certain products ranging from $50 to $250 per ton effective in January 2005. Full year shipments are expected to increase to 1.2 million tons. Costs will increase as a result of annual transfer value adjustments for semi finished steel, which comprehend raw material cost escalation, and higher costs for purchased rounds. First quarter 2005 results for Other Businesses will decline compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 due to normal seasonal effects at iron ore operations in Minnesota. In accordance with the previously announced settlement agreement with the City of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana regarding past years Gary Works personal property taxes, a Lake County appeals board is expected to consider a motion to resolve the appeals in accordance with the proposed settlement in early 2005. If the settlement is approved and becomes final as submitted, U. S. Steel would pay $44 million and would recognize a favorable income effect reflecting the reversal of liabilities accrued in excess of the settlement amount. Total costs in 2005 for domestic defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately the same as in 2004. For further information, see Critical Accounting Estimates Pensions and OPEB. This outlook contains forward looking statements with respect to market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices, tax settlements and employee benefit costs. Some factors, among others, that could affect market conditions, costs, shipments and prices for both domestic operations and USSE include global product demand, prices and mix; global and company steel production levels; plant operating performance; the timing and completion of facility projects; natural gas prices and usage; raw materials availability and prices; changes in environmental, tax and other laws; employee strikes; power outages; legal proceedings regarding the proposed Gary Works tax settlement and U.S. and global economic performance and political developments. Domestic steel shipments and prices could be affected by import levels and actions taken by the U.S. Government and its agencies. Political factors in Europe that may affect USSEs results include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions, export quotas, tariffs, and other protectionist measures. Future pension costs will be influenced by the market performance of plan assets, laws and regulations regarding discount rates and other calculations, and other economic factors. Future costs for active and retiree medical benefits will be influenced by medical inflation rates, future laws and regulations and retiree participation levels. Accounting Standards In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R) which addresses consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities that do not have sufficient equity investment to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties or whose equity investors lack the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. The Interpretation provides guidance related to identifying variable interest entities and determining whether such entities should be consolidated. It also provides guidance related to the initial and subsequent measurement of assets, liabilities and 54 Table of Contents noncontrolling interests in newly consolidated variable interest entities and requires disclosures for both the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and other beneficiaries of the entity. In accordance with FIN 46R, U. S. Steel consolidated the 1314B Partnership as of January 1, 2004. See further discussion in Note 18 to the Financial statements. In May 2004, FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106 2 (FSP FAS 106 2), Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Drug Act) was issued. FSP FAS 106 2 finalizes the accounting for the Drug Act and specifies that the effect of the Federal subsidy on a benefit plans accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) shall be accounted for as an actuarial experience gain. U. S. Steel accounted for the estimated effects of the Drug Act on its APBO as of December 31, 2003. Estimated savings of $450 million were included as an actuarial gain primarily due to changes in participation assumptions caused by the impact of the Drug Act in combination with the cost cap negotiated with the USWA in May 2003 and due to savings from reduced costs for mineworker participants because it is anticipated that the mineworkers union drug program will qualify for the Federal subsidy. Periodic postretirement benefit costs for 2004 were reduced by $60 million due to the estimated impact of these changes. There may also be significant clarifications of the Drug Act in future years that could significantly alter some or all of U. S. Steels assumptions. Furthermore, the participant withdrawal rates could occur at a different pace than has been assumed and the estimated savings could be greater or less than currently identified. No guidance has been issued regarding the effects of the Drug Act on U. S. Steels liabilities under the Coal Act of 1992, which is currently being accounted for under FAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 151 Inventory Costs (FAS 151) which amends ARB 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expenses, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current period charges. In addition, FAS 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The provisions of FAS 151 are effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to inventory costs incurred on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect this Statement to have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, (FAS 123R) which is a revision of FAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, (FAS 123) and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and its related implementation guidance. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. This Statement applies to U. S. Steel for all awards granted on or after July 1, 2005, and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after July 1, 2005, for the portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for pro forma disclosures. U. S. Steel expects the effect of adopting this Statement on 2005 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $15 million. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 152, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 66 and 67. This Statement amends FASB Statements No. 66 and 67 in association with the issuance of SOP 04 2, Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions, which applies to all real estate time sharing transactions. This Statement is effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this statement prospectively to any real estate time sharing transactions occurring on or after January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel does not have any real estate time sharing arrangements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 153, Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. This Statement eliminates the exception from fair value measurement for nonmonetary exchanges of similar productive assets in paragraph 21(b) of APB Opinion No. 29 and replaces it with an exception for exchanges that do not have commercial substance. This Statement specifies that a nonmonetary 55 Table of Contents exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. The provisions of this Statement are effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply the provisions of this Statement prospectively to nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring on or after January 1, 2006. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, (FSP FAS 109 1) which states that the FASB staff believes that the qualified production activities deduction provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109 (FAS 109.) This FSP was effective upon issuance. See Note 13 to the Financial Statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which states that the FASB staff believes that the lack of clarification of certain provisions within the Act and the timing of the enactment necessitate a practical exemption to the FAS 109 requirement to reflect in the period of enactment the effect of a new tax law. Accordingly, an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying FAS 109. See Note 13 to the Financial statements. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its price risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas, heating oil and nonferrous metals and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities are marked to market and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in the current period in income from operations. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. 56 Table of Contents Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Incremental Decrease in Pre tax Income Assuming a Hypothetical Price Decrease of(a) 2004 2003 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Zinc 2.9 7.2 1.2 3.1 Tin NA NA 0.0 0.1 Natural Gas 1.8 4.4 0.9 2.2 (a) The definition of a derivative instrument includes certain fixed price physical commodity contracts. Such instruments are included in the above table. Amounts reflect the estimated incremental effect on pre tax income of hypothetical 10% and 25% decreases in closing commodity prices for each open contract position at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2004, may cause future pre tax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $4 million in 2004, compared to a gain of $1 million in 2003 and a loss of $6 million in 2002. These gains and losses were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For additional quantitative information relating to derivative commodity instruments, see Note 25 to the Financial Statements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2004 and 2003 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) As of December 31 2004 2003 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFair Value(c) Fair Value(b) IncrementalIncrease inFairValue(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 8 $ $ 16 $ Financial liabilities: Long term debt(e)(f) $ 1,419 $ 50 $ 1,993 $ 90 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 23 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2004, and December 31, 2003. (d) For additional information, see Note 14 to the Financial Statements. (e) Includes amounts due within one year. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 17 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steels portfolio of long term debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $50 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases 57 Table of Contents in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $14.3 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $47.0 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2004 euro forward rates would result in a $6.1 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 58 Table of Contents 
 
