Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For additional factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Item 1A. Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. References in this Annual Report on Form 10 K to U. S. Steel, the Company, we, us and our refer to U. S. Steel and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated by the context. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS U. S. Steel is an integrated steel producer with major production operations in the United States and Central Europe. An integrated producer uses iron ore and coke as primary raw materials for steel production. U. S. Steel has domestic annual raw steel production capability of 19.4 million net tons (tons) and Central European annual raw steel production capability of 7.4 million tons. U. S. Steel is also engaged in several other business activities, most of which are related to steel manufacturing. These include the production of iron ore pellets from taconite (rock containing iron) in the United States and the production of coke in both the United States and Central Europe; transportation services (railroad and barge operations); and real estate operations. 4 Table of Contents Segments During 2005, U. S. Steel had three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve domestic customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), container, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil Company LLC (Procoil) and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G Coatings Company L.P. (Double G), which were acquired from National Steel Corporation (National). In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The acquisition of the assets of National on May 20, 2003, increased Flat rolleds annual raw steel production capability from 12.8 millions tons to 19.4 million tons. Domestic raw steel production was 15.3 million tons in 2005, 17.3 million tons in 2004 and 14.9 million tons in 2003, including results from the National assets following the acquisition. Domestic raw steel production averaged 79 percent of capability in 2005, compared to 89 percent of capability in 2004 and 88 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the capability of National on a prorata basis. All steel produced in U. S. Steels domestic facilities is continuous cast. The USSE segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with the former owner of USSB. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the USSB acquisition. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service center, appliance, container, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. The acquisition of USSB on September 12, 2003, increased USSEs annual raw steel production capability from 5.0 millions tons to 7.4 million tons. USSEs raw steel production was 5.9 million tons in 2005, 5.7 million tons in 2004 and 4.8 million tons in 2003, including results from USSB following the acquisition. USSEs raw steel production averaged 80 percent of capability in 2005, compared to 77 percent of capability in 2004 and 84 percent of capability in 2003, recognizing the capability of USSB on a prorata basis. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld (ERW) tubular products. Tubular has the capability to produce 1.9 million tons of tubular products. The transfer price for steel rounds supplied by Flat rolled is set at the beginning of the year based on expected total production costs and may be adjusted quarterly if actual production costs warrant. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services and the management and development of real estate. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota and the Delray Connecting Railroad Company, which were acquired from National. Prior to the sale on June 30, 2003 of U. S. Steels coal mines and related assets, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. U. S. Steel controls domestic iron ore properties having proven and probable iron ore reserves in grades that can be processed by U. S. Steels domestic operations. At year end 2005, these reserves were estimated to be 808 million recoverable short tons. All reserves are located in Minnesota. Approximately 20 percent of these reserves are owned and the remaining 80 percent are leased. Current lease expiration dates vary from five to sixty years in the future, with the largest expiring in 2058. Leases are routinely revised and extended. U. S. Steels transportation business provides rail and barge transportation services to a number of U. S. Steels domestic facilities as well as other domestic customers in the steel, coal, chemicals, oil refining and forest production industries. For further information, see Note 6 to the Financial Statements. 5 Table of Contents Financial and Operational Highlights Net Sales by Segment The following table sets forth the total net sales of U. S. Steel by segment for each of the last three years. (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2005 2004 2003(a) Flat rolled(b)(c) $ 8,813 $ 9,827 $ 6,401 USSE 3,336 2,839 1,817 Tubular 1,546 941 573 Straightline(c) 138 Total sales from reportable segments 13,695 13,607 8,929 Other Businesses(d) 344 368 399 Net sales $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Includes net sales from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. (d) Includes net sales from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business, and from the sale of coal prior to June 30, 2003, when U. S. Steel sold its coal mining business. Income (Loss) from Operations 6 Table of Contents Income (Loss) from Operations by Segment(a) The following table sets forth income (loss) from operations by segment for each of the last three years. Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(b) (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 Flat rolled(c) $ 602 $ 1,185 $ (54 ) USSE 502 439 214 Tubular 528 197 (25 ) Straightline(c) (70 ) Total income from reportable segments 1,632 1,821 65 Other Businesses 43 58 15 Segment income from operations $ 1,675 $ 1,879 $ 80 Retiree benefit expenses (267 ) (257 ) (107 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain 70 Stock appreciation rights 1 (23 ) (75 ) Workforce reduction charges (20 ) (17 ) (621 ) Environmental remediation at previously sold facility (20 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Asset impairments (57 ) Litigation items (25 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,439 $ 1,625 $ (719 ) (a) See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. (b) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. Steel Shipments 7 Table of Contents Steel Shipments by Product Steel Shipments by Product and Segment The following tables set forth steel shipment data for U. S. Steel by segment and product for 2005, 2004 and 2003. Such data does not include shipments by joint ventures and other equity investees of U. S. Steel or shipments from Straightline for 2003. (Thousands of Tons) Flat rolled USSE Tubular Total Product 2005 Hot rolled Sheets 3,779 1,960 5,739 Cold rolled Sheets 4,343 1,383 5,726 Coated Sheets 3,657 405 4,062 Tin Mill Products 1,388 561 1,949 Tubular 140 1,156 1,296 Semi finished and Plates 129 762 891 TOTAL 13,296 5,211 1,156 19,663 Product 2004 Hot rolled Sheets 5,164 2,215 7,379 Cold rolled Sheets 4,587 1,172 5,759 Coated Sheets 4,286 396 4,682 Tin Mill Products 1,443 510 1,953 Tubular 158 1,092 1,250 Semi finished and Plates 155 589 744 TOTAL 15,635 5,040 1,092 21,767 Product 2003 Hot rolled Sheets 4,495 1,777 6,272 Cold rolled Sheets 4,072 1,221 5,293 Coated Sheets 3,215 383 3,598 Tin Mill Products 1,105 320 1,425 Tubular 145 882 1,027 Semi finished and Plates 630 1,003 1,633 TOTAL 13,517 4,849 882 19,248 8 Table of Contents Steel Shipments by Market Steel Shipments by Market and Segment The following tables set forth steel shipment data for U. S. Steel by segment and major market for 2005, 2004 and 2003. Such data does not include shipments by joint ventures and other equity investees of U. S. Steel or shipments from Straightline for 2003. No single customer accounted for more than 10 percent of gross annual revenues; however, Tubular has one customer that accounts for more than 10 percent of its segment revenues. (Thousands of Tons) Flat rolled USSE Tubular Total Major Market 2005 Steel Service Centers 3,172 807 4 3,983 Further Conversion: Trade Customers 1,638 1,302 1 2,941 Joint Ventures 1,744 1,744 Transportation (Including Automotive) 2,449 372 2 2,823 Construction and Construction Products 1,079 1,109 2,188 Containers 1,297 531 1,828 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 33 1,055 1,088 Export 515 94 609 All Other 1,402 1,057 2,459 TOTAL 13,296 5,211 1,156 19,663 Major Market 2004 Steel Service Centers 4,270 1,050 6 5,326 Further Conversion: Trade Customers 1,952 1,060 1 3,013 Joint Ventures 2,017 2,017 Transportation (Including Automotive) 2,557 314 2 2,873 Construction and Construction Products 1,774 1,090 2,864 Containers 1,361 456 1,817 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 40 987 1,027 Export 531 96 627 All Other 1,173 1,030 2,203 TOTAL 15,635 5,040 1,092 21,767 Major Market 2003 Steel Service Centers 4,165 797 9 4,971 Further Conversion: Trade Customers 1,526 1,293 50 2,869 Joint Ventures 1,728 12 1,740 Transportation (Including Automotive) 2,151 359 2 2,512 Construction and Construction Products 1,309 1,226 2,535 Containers 1,092 359 1,451 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 32 40 692 764 Export 484 129 613 All Other 1,030 763 1,793 TOTAL 13,517 4,849 882 19,248 9 Table of Contents Business Strategy U. S. Steels strategy is based on our stated aspiration to be a conservative, responsible company that generates a competitive return on capital and meets our financial and stakeholder obligations. Within this value framework, our business strategy is to increase our value added product mix; to expand our global business platform; to improve our capital structure and strengthen our balance sheet; to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, we are focused on providing value added steel products to our target markets where we believe that our leadership position, production and processing capabilities and technical service provide a competitive advantage. These products include advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets for the construction industry, improved tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods. We significantly expanded our domestic value added capability and strengthened our position in the automotive, container and construction industries with the 2003 acquisition of substantially all of the integrated steelmaking assets of National. Through our November 2000 purchase of USSK in Slovakia, we initiated a major offshore expansion into the European market. We extended our presence in Central Europe in 2003 with the acquisition of USSB in Serbia. Our strategy is to be a leading European steel producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing European markets, to grow our customer base in Europe by providing reliable delivery of high quality steel and to invest in value added facilities, including an automotive hot dip galvanizing line that is currently under construction and scheduled for start up in early 2007. We will assess domestic and international expansion opportunities, including raw materials, in light of changing global steel market conditions and long term customer needs in order to maximize shareholder value; however, current high valuations reduce the appeal of a number of available opportunities. While we have most recently pursued expansion through 100 percent acquisition, we may also participate in future expansion through joint ventures, acquisitions of less than 100 percent equity interests and other means. Over the last three years, we have taken a balanced approach to allocation of our capital resources and free cash flow. We have made strategic investments domestically and in Europe, increased our capital expenditures in order to enhance our infrastructure as well as to take advantage of cost reduction and value added market opportunities, improved our capital structure, voluntarily funded our employee benefit obligations, increased our common stock dividends, repurchased our common stock and enhanced our liquidity. For example, we acquired National and USSB in 2003. Subsequently, we have more than doubled our average annual capital spending over the 2003 level, focusing on investments such as tin mill, dynamo and automotive galvanizing facilities at USSK; the quench and temper line at Lorain Tubular Operations; major blast furnace projects at Gary Works, Granite City Works, USSK and USSB; refurbishing the steelmaking shop at USSB; and several significant environmental projects worldwide. In 2004, we redeemed $259 million of certain senior notes with the proceeds from an equity offering of eight million common shares and retired $281 million of USSK long term debt, enhancing our balance sheet, reducing our interest cost and improving our maturity schedule. Over the last three years, we made voluntary contributions of $500 million to our main domestic defined benefit pension plan and $80 million to a qualified trust to fund retiree medical and life obligations. We increased our dividend twice in 2005, doubling it from 5 cents per share to 10 cents per share. We repurchased 5.8 million shares of common stock for $254 million, an average price of $43.55 per share. Finally, we improved our liquidity by approximately $1.2 billion after the acquisitions in 2003. The National acquisition and the 2003 labor agreements with the United Steelworkers of America (USWA) covering all of our domestic facilities enabled us to achieve a major reduction in the cost structure of our domestic business. We are now focusing on administrative cost reductions in our European operations. Other ongoing cost improvement efforts include logistics and supply chain management improvements, global procurement initiatives, centralized processed products management and maintenance supplies management. 10 Table of Contents The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions regarding future cost savings are subject to uncertainties. Factors that may affect the amount of cost savings include the availability of a trained and optimally sized workforce to operate our businesses and our ability to implement and maintain our cost reduction strategy. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. We significantly improved our safety performance in 2005. On a global basis our OSHA recordable rate improved by 42% and we achieved a 65% reduction in the days away from work cases compared to 2004. We have also entered into a number of joint ventures with domestic and international partners to take advantage of market or manufacturing opportunities. Steel Industry Background and Competition The steel industry is cyclical and highly competitive and historically has been characterized by excess world supply, which has restricted the ability of U. S. Steel and the industry to raise prices during periods of economic growth and resist price decreases during periods of economic contraction. In 2004, worldwide supply and demand were more in balance and supply was constrained by the availability of raw materials largely due to growing demand in China. This led to substantial price increases that continued into early 2005. Starting in the second quarter, excess service center inventory levels began to exert downward pressure on flat rolled spot prices. Prices have strengthened recently as worldwide supply and demand returned to a more balanced position. U. S. Steel reduced production to respond to lower demand during much of 2005, and it has been reported that a number of domestic and international competitors did so as well. Current flat rolled price levels are not nearly as high as those experienced in early 2005 and in late 2004. Supply and demand relationships worldwide are heavily influenced by supply and demand in China. U. S. Steel is the seventh largest steel producer in the world, the second largest integrated steel producer in North America and one of the largest integrated flat rolled producers in Central Europe. U. S. Steel competes with many domestic and foreign steel producers. Competitors include integrated producers which, like U. S. Steel, use iron ore and coke as primary raw materials for steel production, and mini mills, which primarily use steel scrap and, increasingly, iron bearing feedstocks as raw materials. Mini mills typically enjoy certain competitive advantages in the markets in which they compete through lower capital expenditures for construction of facilities and non unionized work forces with lower total employment costs. Some mini mills utilize thin slab casting technology to produce flat rolled products and are increasingly able to compete directly with integrated producers of flat rolled products. Depending on market conditions, including market conditions for steel scrap, the production generated by flat rolled mini mills can have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels selling prices and shipment levels. Due primarily to growth in worldwide steel production, especially in China, prices for steelmaking commodities such as steel scrap, coal, coke and iron ore escalated to unprecedented levels in 2004 and these commodities remain very expensive. U. S. Steels balanced domestic raw materials position and limited dependence on purchased steel scrap has helped the competitive position of U. S. Steels domestic operations. The steel industry also faces competition in many markets from producers of materials such as aluminum, cement, composites, glass, plastics and wood. U. S. Steel has approximately 46,000 active employees worldwide and provides defined benefit pension and or other postretirement benefits to approximately 114,000 retirees and beneficiaries. Domestic integrated producers that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings and mini mills do not have comparable fixed retiree obligations. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 25 percent of the domestic steel market in 2005, 26 percent in 2004 and 19 percent in 2003. Foreign competitors typically have lower labor costs, and are often owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, allowing their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Increases in future levels of imported steel could reduce future market prices and demand levels for domestic steel. The U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) and the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) are currently conducting five year sunset reviews of existing trade relief in four proceedings that include products of interest to U. S. Steel: Seamless Standard, Line and Pressure Pipe (SSLPP); Tin Coated and Chromium Coated Steel Sheet (Tinplate); Welded Pipe and Tube (Welded Pipe) and Corrosion Resistant Carbon Steel Flat Products (Corrosion Resistant). In these proceedings, the agencies will determine whether the existing trade relief should remain in effect. 11 Table of Contents The SSLPP proceeding involves anti dumping orders put in place in 2000 against large diameter product from Japan and Mexico and small diameter product from the Czech Republic, Japan, Romania and South Africa. The DOC has completed its investigations, finding that dumping would be likely to continue or recur if any of these orders is revoked. The ITC will hold a hearing in March 2006 and thereafter decide whether injury to the domestic industry would be likely to continue or recur if any of the orders is revoked. The Tinplate proceeding involves an anti dumping order put in place in 2000 against product from Japan. The DOC has completed its investigations, finding that dumping would be likely to continue or recur if this order is revoked. The ITC will hold a hearing in April 2006 and thereafter decide whether injury to the domestic industry would be likely to continue or recur if any of the orders is revoked. The Welded Pipe proceeding includes anti dumping orders put in place in 1992 against product from Brazil, South Korea, Mexico and Taiwan. The DOC has completed its investigations, finding that dumping would be likely to continue or recur if any of these orders is revoked. The ITC will hold a hearing in May 2006 and thereafter decide whether injury to the domestic industry would be likely to continue or recur if any of the orders is revoked. The Corrosion Resistant proceeding involves anti dumping orders against product from Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and South Korea and countervailing duty orders against product from France, Germany and South Korea, all of which were put in place in 1993. The DOC is engaged in its investigations to determine whether dumping would be likely to continue or recur if any of these orders is revoked. The ITC is expected to hold its hearing in this matter in about September 2006. Other sunset reviews that will be initiated in 2006 are: Oil Country Tubular Goods from Argentina, Italy, Japan, Korea and Mexico and Seamless Pipe from Argentina, Brazil and Germany (both in June 2006); Hot Rolled Sheet and Strip from Argentina, China, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, the Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand and Ukraine (August 2006); and Welded Large Diameter Line Pipe from Japan and Mexico (November 2006). U. S. Steel will monitor imports closely and file anti dumping and countervailing duty petitions if unfairly traded imports adversely impact, or threaten to adversely impact, financial results. U. S. Steels domestic businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, emission and discharge of environmentally sensitive materials. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar historic liabilities. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. USSK and USSB conduct business primarily in Central and Western Europe and are subject to market conditions in those areas which are influenced by many of the same factors that affect domestic markets, as well as matters peculiar to international markets such as quotas and tariffs. USSK and USSB are affected by worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry, the cyclical nature of demand for steel products and the sensitivity of that demand to worldwide general economic conditions. In particular, USSK and USSB are subject to economic conditions, environmental regulations and political factors in Europe, which if changed could negatively affect results of operations and cash flow. These economic conditions, environmental regulations and political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions (see Environmental Matters for a discussion regarding carbon dioxide emissions limits, which are 12 Table of Contents applicable to European Union (EU) member countries), and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSK and USSB are affected by the volatility of raw materials prices, and USSB has recently been affected by curtailments of natural gas available in the one pipeline that supplies Serbia. USSK is subject to foreign currency exchange risks because its revenues are primarily in euros and its costs are primarily in U.S. dollars and Slovak koruna. USSB is subject to foreign currency exchange risks because its revenues are primarily in euros and Serbian dinars and its costs are primarily in U.S. dollars and Serbian dinars. Facilities and Locations Flat rolled With the exception of the Fairfield pipe mill, the operating results of all the facilities within U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills are included in Flat rolled. These facilities include Gary Works, Great Lakes Works, Mon Valley Works, Granite City Works and Fairfield Works. Gary Works, located at Gary, Indiana, has annual raw steel production capability of 7.5 million tons. Gary Works has three coke batteries, four blast furnaces, six steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit and four continuous slab casters. In January 2006, we completed a major rebuild of our largest blast furnace, which is located at Gary Works. Gary Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells several coke by products. Finishing facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, three temper mills, a double cold reduction line, two tin coating lines, an electrolytic galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets and tin mill products. Gary Works also produces strip mill plate. The Midwest Plant and East Chicago Tin are operated as part of Gary Works. The Midwest Plant, located in Portage, Indiana, finishes hot rolled bands. Midwest facilities include a pickling line, two cold reduction mills, two temper mills, a double cold reduction mill, two hot dip galvanizing lines, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. Principal products include tin mill products and hot dip galvanized, cold rolled and electrical lamination sheets. Midwest was acquired from National. East Chicago Tin is located in East Chicago, Indiana. Facilities include a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, a temper mill, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. Great Lakes Works, located in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan, has annual raw steel production capability of 3.8 million tons. Great Lakes facilities include three blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a high speed pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, a temper mill, an electrolytic galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets. Great Lakes Works was acquired from National. Mon Valley Works consists of the Edgar Thomson Plant, located in Braddock, Pennsylvania; the Irvin Plant, located in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania; the Fairless Plant, located in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania; and Clairton Works, located in Clairton, Pennsylvania. Mon Valley Works has annual raw steel production capability of 2.9 million tons. Facilities at the Edgar Thomson Plant include two blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit and a slab caster. Irvin Plant facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, a cold reduction mill, a temper mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. The Fairless Plant operates a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products from Mon Valley Works include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, as well as coke produced at Clairton Works. Clairton Works is comprised of twelve coke batteries, two of which are operated for the 1314B Partnership, which is discussed below. Clairton (including the 1314B Partnership) produced 4.3 million tons of coke in 2005, 4.3 million tons in 2004 and 4.5 million tons in 2003. Approximately 76 percent of annual production (including the 1314B Partnership) was consumed by U. S. Steel facilities in 2005 and the remainder was sold to other domestic steel producers. Several coke by products are sold to the chemicals and raw materials industries. U. S. Steel is the sole general partner of and owns an equity interest in the 1314B Partnership. As general partner, U. S. Steel is responsible for operating and selling coke and by products from the partnerships two coke batteries located at U. S. Steels Clairton Works. U. S. Steels share of profits during 2005 was 45.75 percent. U. S. Steel consolidates the results of the 1314B Partnership in its financial statements. 13 Table of Contents Granite City Works, located in Granite City, Illinois, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.8 million tons. Granite Citys facilities include two coke batteries, two blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Granite City Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells several coke by products. Principal products include hot rolled and coated sheets. Granite City Works was acquired from National. Fairfield Works, located in Fairfield, Alabama, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.4 million tons. Fairfield Works facilities included in Flat rolled are a blast furnace, three steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, a slab caster, a rounds caster, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, two temper/skin pass mills, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, and steel rounds for Tubular. ProCoil, a wholly owned subsidiary located in Canton, Michigan, slits and cuts steel coils to desired specifications, provides laser welding services and warehouses material to service automotive customers. ProCoil was acquired from National. U. S. Steel participates in a number of joint ventures which are included in Flat rolled, most of which are conducted through subsidiaries or other separate legal entities. All such joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method. The significant joint ventures and other investments are described below, all of which are 50 percent owned except Feralloy Processing Company (FPC) and Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V. (Acero Prime), in which U. S. Steel holds 49 percent and 40 percent interests, respectively. For financial information regarding joint ventures and other investments, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel and Pohang Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (POSCO) of South Korea participate in a joint venture, USS POSCO Industries (USS POSCO), located in Pittsburg, California. The joint venture markets high quality sheet and tin mill products, principally in the western United States. USS POSCO produces cold rolled sheets, galvanized sheets, tin plate and tin free steel from hot bands principally provided by U. S. Steel and POSCO, which each provide about 50 percent of its requirements. Total shipments by USS POSCO were 1.2 million tons in 2005, 1.4 million tons in 2004 and 1.2 million tons in 2003. U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. of Japan participate in a joint venture, PRO TEC Coating Company (PRO TEC). PRO TEC owns and operates two hot dip galvanizing lines in Leipsic, Ohio, which primarily serve the automotive industry. PRO TECs annual capability is approximately 1.2 million tons. U. S. Steel supplies PRO TEC with all of its requirements of cold rolled sheets and markets all of its products. Total shipments by PRO TEC were 1.1 million tons in 2005, 2004 and 2003. U. S. Steel and Severstal North America, Inc. participate in Double Eagle Steel Coating Company (DESCO), a joint venture which operates an electrogalvanizing facility located in Dearborn, Michigan. The facility can coat both sides of sheet steel with free zinc or zinc alloy coatings, primarily for use in the automotive industry. DESCO processes steel supplied by each partner and each partner markets its share of the output. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, DESCOs total production was 693 thousand tons, 650 thousand tons and 683 thousand tons, respectively, of electrogalvanized steel. U. S. Steel and Mittal Steel Co. NV participate in the Double G joint venture, a hot dip galvanizing and Galvalume&reg; facility located near Jackson, Mississippi, which primarily serves the construction industry. U. S. Steels interest was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. Double Gs production was 234 thousand tons in 2005, 316 thousand tons in 2004 and 288 thousand tons in 2003. U. S. Steel and Worthington Industries, Inc. participate in a joint venture known as Worthington Specialty Processing, which operates a steel processing facility in Jackson, Michigan. The plant is operated by Worthington Industries, Inc. The facility is capable of processing master steel coils into both slit coils and sheared first operation blanks including rectangles, trapezoids, parallelograms and chevrons. It is designed to meet specifications for the automotive, appliance, furniture and metal door industries. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, Worthington Specialty Processing shipments were 342 thousand tons, 326 thousand tons and 282 thousand tons, respectively. 14 Table of Contents U. S. Steel and Olympic Steel, Inc. participate in a joint venture to process laser welded sheet steel blanks, Olympic Laser Processing (OLP). Due to challenging business conditions, it was decided in January 2006 to shut down OLP. FPC, a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Feralloy Corporation, converts coiled hot strip mill plate into sheared and flattened plates for shipment to customers. The plant, located in Portage, Indiana, has a temper mill linked to a cut to length leveling line. The line provides stress free, leveled product with a superior surface finish. FPC provides processing services to the joint venture partners and other steel consumers and service centers. FPC had annual revenues of $6.6 million in 2005, $5.1 million in 2004 and $3.4 million in 2003. Chrome Deposit Corporation (CDC), a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Court Holdings, reconditions finishing work rolls, which require grinding, chrome plating, and or texturing. The rolls are used on rolling mills to provide superior finishes on steel sheets. CDC has seven locations across the United States, with all locations near major steel mills. In 2005, 2004, and 2003, CDC had annual revenues of $18.3 million, $19.9 million and $19.0 million, respectively. U. S. Steel, along with Feralloy Mexico, S.R.L. de C.V. and Mitsui Development Co., Inc., participates in a joint venture, Acero Prime. Acero Prime operates in Mexico with facilities in San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, and a leased warehouse in Toluca. Acero Prime provides slitting, warehousing and logistical services. U. S. Steel carries out a wide range of applied research, development and technical support functions at a leased Research and Technology Center located in Monroeville, Pennsylvania. In 2006, the research, development and technical support functions currently performed in Monroeville will be relocated to a newly acquired facility in Munhall, Pennsylvania. U. S. Steel also owns an automotive technical center in Troy, Michigan. This 43,000 square foot facility brings together automotive sales, service, distribution and logistics services, product technology and applications research in one location. Much of U. S. Steels work in developing new grades of steel to meet the demands of automakers for high strength, light weight and formable materials is carried out at this location. USSE USSE consists of USSK, USSB and several subsidiaries of each. USSK is headquartered at its integrated facility in Kosice, Slovakia, which has annual raw steel production capability of 5.0 million tons. This facility has two coke batteries, three blast furnaces, four steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, two dual strand casters, a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, a temper mill, a temper/double cold reduction mill, two hot dip galvanizing lines, two tin coating lines, three dynamo lines and a color coating line. In addition, USSK owns 100 percent of Walzwerk Finow GmbH, located in eastern Germany, which produces and ships about 90 thousand tons per year of welded precision steel tubes and cold rolled specialty shaped sections from both cold rolled and hot rolled product supplied primarily by USSK. USSK also has facilities for manufacturing heating radiators, spiral welded pipe and refractories. USSB has an integrated plant in Smederevo, Serbia which has annual raw steel production capability of 2.4 million tons. Facilities at this plant include two blast furnaces, three steelmaking vessels, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, a temper mill and a temper/double cold reduction mill. Other facilities include a tin mill in Sabac, a limestone mine in Kucevo, a river port and a foundry, all located in Serbia. Tubular Seamless products are produced on a mill located at Fairfield Works in Fairfield, Alabama, and on two mills located in Lorain, Ohio. ERW products are produced on a mill located in McKeesport, Pennsylvania, which is operated by Camp Hill Corporation. 15 Table of Contents Other Businesses U. S. Steels iron ore pellet operations are located at Mt. Iron (Minntac) and Keewatin (Keetac), Minnesota. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, these operations produced 22.3 million, 22.9 million and 18.6 million tons of iron ore pellets, respectively, including those produced at Keewatin after its acquisition in May 2003. U. S. Steel owns 100 percent of Transtar, Inc. Transtar and its subsidiaries (the Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company in Illinois and Indiana; the Lake Terminal Railroad Company in Ohio; Union Railroad Company and McKeesport Connecting Railroad Company in Pennsylvania; the Birmingham Southern Railroad Company, Fairfield Southern Company, Inc., Mobile River Terminal Company, and Warrior and Gulf Navigation Company, all located in Alabama; and Delray Connecting Railroad Company in Michigan, which was acquired from National) comprise U. S. Steels transportation business. U. S Steel owns and develops various real estate assets, which include approximately 200,000 acres of surface rights primarily in Alabama, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota and Pennsylvania. Raw Materials and Energy Historically, supplies of raw materials and energy used to produce steel were more than sufficient and costs were relatively stable. In the past several years there has been a tightening of raw material availability and substantial increases in costs. As an integrated producer, U. S. Steels primary raw materials are iron units in the form of iron ore or taconite, carbon units in the form of coal and coke (which is produced from coal) and steel scrap. The amounts of such raw materials needed to produce a ton of steel will fluctuate based upon the specifications of the final steel products, the quality of raw materials and, to a lesser extent, differences among steel producing equipment. In broad terms, U. S. Steel estimates that it consumes about 1.4 tons of coal to produce one ton of coke and that it consumes over 1.2 tons of iron ore pellets and a little less than 0.4 tons of coke for each ton of raw steel produced. While we believe that these estimates are useful for planning purposes, substantial variations occur. Iron Ore With the iron ore facilities at Minntac and Keetac, which contain an estimated 808 million short tons of recoverable reserves, U. S. Steel has the capability of being completely self sufficient for its domestic iron ore requirements to support blast furnace production. Recoverable tons means the tons of product that can be used internally or delivered to a customer after considering mining and beneficiation or preparation losses. Any surplus pellet production is sold to domestic and foreign consumers, including USSE. Depending on market conditions and transportation costs, internal iron ore requirements may be satisfied by the purchase of pellets from third parties, permitting the sale of additional pellets on the open market. USSE purchases most of its iron ore requirements from third parties, but has purchased iron ore from U. S. Steels domestic iron ore facilities. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of iron ore, adequate to meet USSEs needs, are available at competitive market prices. The main sources of iron ore for USSE are Russia and Ukraine, with supplemental supply from Slovakia, Venezuela and Brazil. 16 Table of Contents Coal All of U. S. Steels domestic coal requirements are purchased from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of coal adequate to meet its domestic needs are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Coal supplies were disrupted during late 2003 and throughout 2004 largely due to the declarations of force majeure by several of U. S. Steels major coal suppliers. Supplies were disrupted in early 2005 due to river lock closures resulting from flooding. U. S. Steel has entered into contracts at competitive market prices for its domestic coal requirements in 2006. USSKs coal requirements are purchased from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of coal adequate to meet USSKs needs are available from third parties at competitive market prices. The main sources of coal for USSK include Poland, the Czech Republic, the United States, Russia and Ukraine. USSK has entered into contracts at competitive market prices for its coal requirements in 2006. USSB, which purchases coke, does not currently require coal to support its operations. Coke Domestically, U. S. Steel operates cokemaking facilities at its Clairton, Pennsylvania; Gary, Indiana; and Granite City, Illinois locations. These facilities have the capability to supply the majority of U. S. Steels domestic metallurgical coke requirements for blast furnace production. A prior relationship with a coke facility adjacent to the Great Lakes Works expired at year end 2005. Blast furnace coal injection processes at Gary Works, Great Lakes Works and Fairfield Works reduce U. S. Steels domestic coke requirements. U. S. Steel routinely sells or swaps a portion of the coke production from its Clairton facility. To the extent that it is necessary or appropriate considering existing needs and or applicable transportation costs, coke is purchased from or swapped with domestic and international suppliers or other end users. We are evaluating alternatives to add cokemaking capacity and to enhance energy recovery efficiencies. USSK operates a cokemaking facility that primarily serves the steelmaking operations at USSK. Depending on market conditions and operational schedules, USSK may purchase small quantities of coke on the open market and may occasionally supply a portion of USSBs needs. Blast furnace coal injection processes at USSK reduce its coke requirements. USSB purchases predominantly all of its coke requirements from third party suppliers. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of coke, adequate to meet USSKs and USSBs needs, are available at competitive market prices. The main sources of coke for USSK and USSB in 2006 are expected to be Poland, Ukraine, Russia, Bosnia, China and the Czech Republic. 17 Table of Contents Limestone All domestic limestone requirements are purchased from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of limestone adequate to meet its domestic needs are readily available from third parties at competitive market prices. All limestone requirements for USSK are purchased from a third party under a long term contract. USSB sources approximately 50 percent of its limestone requirements from third party suppliers with the balance coming from production from a limestone mine under its direct control. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of limestone adequate to meet USSBs needs are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Scrap and Other Materials Supplies of steel scrap, tin, zinc and other alloying and coating materials required to fulfill U. S. Steels requirements for domestic and European operations are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Generally, approximately 40 percent of U. S. Steels scrap requirements is generated through its normal operations. U. S. Steel utilizes some hedging and derivative purchasing practices with regard to domestic requirements for tin and zinc. Natural Gas U. S. Steel purchases all of its domestic natural gas requirements from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of natural gas adequate to meet its domestic needs are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Currently, about 60 percent of U. S. Steels domestic natural gas purchases are based on solicited bids, on a monthly basis, from various vendors; approximately 15 percent are made through long term contracts; and the remainder are made daily. U. S. Steel utilizes some hedging and derivative purchasing practices with regard to domestic requirements for natural gas because of the volatility of natural gas markets. As shown in the graph, domestic natural gas prices have increased significantly over the last several years. USSK and USSB purchase their natural gas requirements from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of natural gas, adequate to meet USSEs needs, are normally available from third parties at competitive market prices. Natural gas prices in Slovakia and Serbia have been less volatile than in the U.S.; however, prices increased in 2004 and 2005 and are expected to increase again in 2006. USSB has recently experienced curtailments of its natural gas supplies. Serbia relies upon a single pipeline system for its natural gas, making USSB and other industrial customers vulnerable to disruptions in this system. Commercial Sales of Product U. S. Steel characterizes its sales as contract if sold pursuant to an agreement with a one year or longer duration and as spot if sold pursuant to a shorter term contract. In 2005 approximately 50%, 25% and 5% of sales by Flat rolled, USSE and Tubular, respectively, were contract sales. U. S. Steel does not consider sales backlog to be a meaningful measure since volume commitments in most contracts are based on each customers specific monthly orders. 18 Table of Contents Environmental Matters U. S. Steel maintains a comprehensive environmental policy overseen by the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of the U. S. Steel Board of Directors. The Environmental Affairs organization has the responsibility to ensure that U. S. Steels operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that are in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The Executive Environmental Committee, which is comprised of officers of U. S. Steel, is charged with reviewing its overall performance with various environmental compliance programs. Also, U. S. Steel, largely through the American Iron and Steel Institute and the International Iron and Steel Institute, continues its involvement in the development of various air, water and waste regulations with federal, state and local governments and international stakeholders concerning the implementation of cost effective pollution reduction strategies. The domestic businesses of U. S. Steel are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act (CAA) with respect to air emissions; the Clean Water Act (CWA) with respect to water discharges; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances. In addition, all states where U. S. Steel operates have similar laws dealing with the same matters. These laws are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable due in part to the fact that certain implementing regulations for laws such as RCRA and the CAA have not yet been promulgated or in certain instances are undergoing revision. These environmental laws and regulations, particularly the CAA, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet CAA obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be adversely affected. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSKs environmental expenses in 2005 included fees and or penalties totaling approximately $8 million. There are no legal proceedings pending against USSK involving environmental matters. USSK has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance in order to meet environmental standards as established from time to time by Slovak law. One current compliance project is a dedusting system for Steel Shop No. 2 to meet air emission standards for particulates. These standards are applicable January 1, 2007 and USSK is attempting to complete the project by this deadline; however, project completion is currently anticipated for the first quarter 2007. Failure to meet the applicable deadline could result in the imposition of corrective measures by the Slovak Ministry of Environment (Ministry). While the United States has not ratified the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC), in order to provide EU member states a mechanism for fulfilling their Kyoto commitments, has established its own CO2 limits for every EU member state. In 2004, the EC approved a national allocation plan for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias originally proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent, and following that decision the Ministry imposed an 8 percent reduction to the amount of CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. Subsequently, USSK filed legal actions agains the EC and the Ministry 19 Table of Contents challenging these reductions. In addition, USSK is evaluating a number of alternatives ranging from purchasing CO2 allowances to reducing steel production, and it is not currently possible to predict the impact of these decisions on USSK. However, the actual shortfall of allowances for the initial allocation period (2005 through 2007) will depend upon a number of internal and external variables and the effect of that shortfall on USSK cannot be predicted at this time. Based on the fair value of the anticipated shortfall of allowances related to production in 2005, a long term other liability of $4 million has been charged to income and recorded on the balance sheet. Domestically, while ratification of the Kyoto Protocol does not seem likely in the near term, there remains the possibility that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may impose limitations on greenhouse gases. The impact on U. S. Steels domestic operations cannot be estimated. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro. These laws are currently less restrictive than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Air The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a federally mandated operating permit program and civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. The principal impact of the CAA on U. S. Steel is on the cokemaking and primary steelmaking operations, as described in this section. The CAA requires the regulation of hazardous air pollutants and development and promulgation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) Standards. It was determined in 1995 that the Chrome Electroplating MACT did not apply to steel mill sources; however, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) stated that MACT standards applicable to these sources would be forthcoming. To date, there has been no action taken. U. S. Steel facilities that potentially would be affected are the electrolytic tinning lines at Gary Works and the tin free steel lines at East Chicago Tin and the Midwest Plant. The EPA MACT standards for integrated iron and steel plants require compliance by May 22, 2006. The taconite iron ore processing MACT requires compliance by October 30, 2006. U. S. Steel anticipates that additional emissions control equipment will be needed to comply with the taconite iron ore processing MACT at Minntac. Keetac has installed an air scrubber for that purpose. Costs associated with compliance with these MACT standards are included in the capital expenditures disclosed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. The CAA specifically addressed the regulation and control of coke oven batteries. U. S. Steel has elected to comply with the Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) standards and believes it will be able to meet the current LAER standards. The LAER standards are expected to be further revised in 2010 and additional health risk based standards are expected to be adopted in 2020. The Phase II Coke MACT for pushing, quenching and battery stacks requires compliance by April 14, 2006. The EPA is developing regulations to address Regional Haze, the impact of which could be significant to U. S. Steel, but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated until the final regulations are promulgated and, more importantly, the states implement their State Implementation Plans covering their standards. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains the necessary discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts its operations to be in compliance with such permits. For 20 Table of Contents additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 21,000 domestically and approximately 25,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in December 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Most employees at USSB are represented by three unions and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. On February 10, 2006, USSB and two of the three unions agreed to the hourly base earnings for 2006 and signed an annex to the collective bargaining agreement. As of the date of this filing, the largest labor union at USSB had not agreed to the negotiated 2006 hourly base earnings or signed the annex. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. 21 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income (loss) by reportable segments and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 6 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 60 and F 61. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is cyclical and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows general economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in various smaller geographic areas. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess world supply. This has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness, which have not been offset by commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. Rapidly growing demand and supply in China and other developing economies may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years steel consumption in China and other developing economies such as India has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by developing plans to rapidly increase steel production capability in these countries. Steel production, especially in China, has been expanding rapidly and could be well in excess of Chinese demand depending on continuing demand growth rates. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any significant Chinese capacity excess could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if excess production is exported to other markets. Increases in prices and limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. Steel producers require large amounts of raw materials iron ore or other iron containing material, steel scrap, coke and coal for integrated producers such as U. S. Steel, and scrap for mini mill producers. Both integrated and mini mill producers consume large amounts of energy. Over the last several years, prices for raw materials and energy, in particular natural gas, have increased significantly. In many cases these price increases have been a greater percentage than price increases for the sale of steel products. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in receiving sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner, resulting in production curtailments. These production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins and may continue to do so in the future. 22 Table of Contents Increased imports of steel products into the U.S. could negatively affect domestic steel prices and demand levels and reduce profitability of domestic producers. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 25 percent of the domestic steel market in 2005, 26 percent in 2004 and 19 percent in 2003. Foreign competitors typically have lower labor costs, and are often owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Import levels may also be impacted by decisions of government agencies under U.S. trade laws. Increases in future levels of imported steel could reduce future market prices and demand levels for domestic steel. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Domestic steel producers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the European Union and Japan are generally comparable to domestic standards, other nations have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to unplanned equipment failures. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Availability of supplies could also be affected by logistical disruptions (shortages of barges or rail cars). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. Risk Factors concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Many lawsuits have been filed against U. S. Steel involving asbestos related injuries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and cash flow. U. S. Steel is a defendant in a large number of cases in which approximately 8,400 claimants actively allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. Many of these cases involve multiple claimants (often hundreds or thousands) and defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred). It is possible that we may experience large judgments against us in the future that could have an impact upon the number of future claims filed against us and on the amount of future settlements, which would have an adverse impact on our profitability and cash flow. Our retiree employee health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans covering most of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 114,000 current retirees and beneficiaries are receiving pension and or medical benefits. U. S. Steels underfunded benefit obligations for retiree medical and life insurance were $2.3 billion at year end 2005. Most of these underfunded obligations are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Other postretirement benefit expense is expected to be approximately $111 million in 2006. 23 Table of Contents Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Several domestic competitors provide defined contribution health care plans with contributions increased based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. Our defined benefit pension plan costs are higher than those of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We have noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering many of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. The funded status of these plans declined from an overfunded position of $1.2 billion at year end 2001 to an underfunded position of $606 million at year end 2005. Minimum contributions to these plans is controlled under ERISA and other government regulations and substantial cash contributions may be required. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Pension benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Most domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit pension plans, but may provide defined contribution pension plans with contributions increasing based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our profitability and cash flow. U. S. Steel is currently involved in approximately 60 remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to third parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Numerous domestic competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Domestic competitors that have obtained relief under the Bankruptcy Code may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors applicable to U. S. Steel The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Under the terms of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due 2008 and our 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010 (collectively, the Senior Notes), we are not able to pay dividends on capital stock unless we meet certain restricted payment tests. The terms of our indebtedness and our accounts receivable program contain restrictive provisions that may limit our flexibility. We have Senior Notes outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $726 million as of December 31, 2005. The Senior Notes impose significant restrictions on us such as limits on additional borrowings and certain investments and the use of funds from asset sales. Our $600 million revolving credit agreement secured by inventory prohibits us from selling certain principal properties and imposes additional restrictions if the amount available to be borrowed under that agreement is less than $100 million. Such restrictions include maintaining a fixed charge coverage ratio and limitations on capital expenditures and investments. The Senior Notes, the revolving credit agreement and some of our other loan facilities and leases have provisions that may cause a default under one of these agreements to become a default under the others. These covenants may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 24 Table of Contents Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. Any downgrade in our credit ratings would make raising capital more difficult, would increase the cost of future borrowings and would affect the terms on which we purchase goods and services. In addition, the fees payable under our receivables sales program would increase and the amount of receivables eligible for sale could be reduced. Change in control clauses may require us to immediately purchase or repay debt. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, inventory facility and various other loan documents, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately purchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. We may not have the financial resources to make these purchases and repayments, and a failure to purchase or repay such indebtedness would trigger cross acceleration clauses under the Senior Notes and other indebtedness. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to realize. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net federal, foreign and state deferred tax assets of $486 million. Although management believes that it is more likely than not that future operating results and tax planning strategies generating sufficient future taxable income can be utilized to realize the net deferred tax assets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate such results or implement these strategies. Our international operations expose us to uncertainties and risks from abroad, which could negatively affect our results of operations. USSK, located in the Slovak Republic, and USSB, located in Serbia, constitute nearly 28% of our total raw steel production capability, and accounted for 24% of net sales for 2005. Both USSK and USSB are subject to economic conditions and political factors in Europe, which if changed could negatively affect their results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSK and USSB are also subject to foreign currency exchange risks. Any future international acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Natural gas supplies to USSB may be curtailed and such curtailments would have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. USSB is dependent upon availability of natural gas in Serbia, which is dependent upon a single pipeline. Serbia has experienced major curtailments during periods of peak demand in Eastern Europe. Such curtailments have forced USSB to interrupt steel production and finishing operations in the past and this could recur in the future. The carbon dioxide emission limits established by the European Commission may limit the amount of steel that can be produced at USSK and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. The European Commission (EC) has established carbon dioxide (CO2) emission limits for EU member countries. Under this program the Slovak Ministry of the Environment has reduced the amount of CO2 that USSK may emit. USSK may be required to reduce its production or purchase emission credits, either of which may have a negative impact on income and cash flow. Our business requires substantial debt service, contingent obligations, capital investment, operating lease, capital commitments and maintenance expenditures that we may be unable to fulfill. With approximately $1.6 billion of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2005, we have substantial debt service requirements. Interest and other financial costs, excluding foreign currency losses, interest income, capitalized 25 Table of Contents interest and the adjustment from the Gary property tax settlement, totaled $124 million in 2005 and are expected to be about the same in 2006; however, interest and other financial costs will change with changes to our capital structure. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2005, total capital expenditures were $2.2 billion. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program over a period commencing with the acquisition date and ending on December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2005, the remaining commitment under this program was $53 million. At December 31, 2005, our domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $82 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $376 million under operating leases. In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, raw steel and steel finishing production facilities, including periodic relines or rebuilds of our seventeen blast furnaces. As of December 31, 2005, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $133 million, guarantees of approximately $10 million of indebtedness for unconsolidated entities and contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements of approximately $3.9 billion, plus contingencies under the sale of our mining assets of approximately $79 million. As the general partner of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P., we are obligated to fund cash shortfalls incurred by that partnership but may withdraw as the general partner if we are required to fund in excess of $150 million in operating cash shortfalls. As of December 31, 2005, we were also contingently liable for $2 million of debt and other obligations of Marathon. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. U. S. Steels insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insurance retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. The collective bargaining agreement with the USWA contains provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USWA, grants the USWA a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the collective bargaining agreement and requires us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities. That agreement also restricts our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further requires that the ratio of non USWA employees to USWA employees at our domestic facilities not exceed 1 to 5. Strikes, work stoppages and customer concern about the possibility of strikes, particularly upon the expiration of our major domestic collective bargaining agreement, could adversely impact our relationships with our customers which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, mini mill producers and certain foreign competitors and producers of comparable products do not have unionized work forces. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USWA, foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. U. S. Steel is involved in multiemployer plans covering pensions and other postretirement benefit costs. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of these plans, which will have a negative effect on our cash flows. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of these plans. 26 Table of Contents U. S. Steel is subject to work stoppages as a result of periodic labor negotiations at facilities in Europe. Most employees at USSK and USSB are represented by unions pursuant to agreements that expire in December 2007 and November 2006, respectively, both of which are subject to annual wage rate negotiations. Any strike or work stoppage upon expiration of the current agreements or as a result of the inability to agree on annual wage rates could have significant negative effects on results of operations. Customer payment defaults could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries and could experience financial difficulties in times of economic downturn. In some cases, these difficulties may result in bankruptcy filings or cessation of operations. If customers experiencing financial problems default on paying amounts owed to us, we may not be able to collect these amounts or recognize expected revenue. Any material payment defaults by our customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with acquisitions. The success of recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions will depend substantially on our ability to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Recent acquisitions in the steel industry have involved prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our recent acquisitions. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy ProcessingCompany(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(b) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003 and our joint ventures, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 28 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007. In 2005, U. S. Steel made an irrevocable decision to purchase the electrolytic galvanizing facility at lease expiration. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works cogeneration facility in the second quarter of 2006. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 150 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 29 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. In 2005, approximately 42 percent of the cases filed against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed (jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000). Approximately 33 percent did not specify any damages at all, approximately 25 percent alleged damages of $1 million and less than half of one percent alleged damages exceeding $10 million. Historically, over 90 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. During 2005, U. S. Steel paid approximately $11 million in settlements. These settlements, along with review of case docket information for certain states and voluntary and involuntary dismissals, resulted in the disposition of approximately 3,800 claims. New case filings added approximately 1,200 claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse 30 Table of Contents effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 14 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2005, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 17 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 7 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 8 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $6.8 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named 31 Table of Contents Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/Feasibility Study (FS). The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project is not presently determinable. U. S. Steels share of the costs for this project will depend upon EPAs selection of an alternative from the range of alternatives presented in the FS and the number of PRPs available to allocate the costs. U. S. Steel anticipates that more PRPs may be added to the group by EPA before the costs of remediation are allocated. U. S. Steel has an accrual of $1.0 million for this site. In addition, there are 12 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 43 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 5 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 16 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 9 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $10 million at one site, in excess of $15 million at two sites and in excess of $25 million at one site. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. As of December 31, 2005, project costs have amounted to $52.5 million. U. S. Steel anticipates doing additional dredging at a cost of $8.4 million. U. S. Steel is presently in discussions with the dredging contractor and intends to meet with EPA in an effort to reduce the anticipated cost of this work. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $1.3 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property with total costs estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel paid its entire share of the assessment costs and $4.5 million of its share of the restoration costs to the public trustees in 2005. A balance of $16 million in restoration costs remains to be paid by U. S. Steel to complete its settlement obligations. 32 Table of Contents On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA and reports of field investigation findings have been submitted to EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans have been submitted to EPA for approval. Three self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $21.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations for the submitted work plans is estimated to be $2.8 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to 2002. On December 27, 2005, IDEM issued a NOV which includes alleged violations at the No. 8 Blast Furnace and the Coke Batteries for the period of 2002 through 2005. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a solid waste management unit (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After its acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel intends to submit a remediation alternative to IDEM recommending an in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.1 million. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $452,000. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects (SEPs) at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved and field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel submitted a Phase I RFI Report to ADEM in February 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $102,000. In addition, U. S. Steel has developed a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $418,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $338,000. 33 Table of Contents Lorain Tubular Operations In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe) with steelmaking, bar producing and tubular operations in Lorain, Ohio, was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Tubular Operations. U. S. Steel and EPA entered into a consent decree that resolved all issues related to U. S. Steels operations. The Consent Decree was filed with the U. S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio Eastern Division (United States of America and State of Ohio v. United States Steel Corporation), where it was entered November 29, 2005. In December 2005, U. S. Steel paid cash penalties totaling $100,025. Also in December 2005, U. S. Steel conducted a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. In addition, U. S. Steel has agreed to perform a SEP to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Issues related to the company that retained the steelmaking and bar producing facilities were resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works Effective February 14, 2005, U. S. Steel entered into a consent order with Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) related to Great Lakes Works that included the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace, which has been completed; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the steel producing facilities; a civil penalty of $950,000, which has been paid; and a SEP at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Various construction projects are underway at the steel producing facilities to improve emission capture and control. These projects are proceeding in compliance with the consent order schedule. Construction for the riverbank restoration SEP was completed in September 2005. On January 6, 2006, Great Lakes Works received a proposed administrative consent order (Order) from the MDEQ that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the facility. The Order identifies certain corrective actions desired by MDEQ to address the alleged violations and anticipates an undisclosed penalty amount. Great Lakes Works had previously initiated work on some of these actions and completed others. Costs to complete the remaining corrective actions requested by MDEQ are presently not determinable. One of the corrective actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has undertaken a project to remove historic basin sediments from these areas. $800,000 has been spent on the project as of December 31, 2005. Costs to complete the river basin project are estimated to be $1.2 million. Great Lakes Works intends to negotiate a settlement of this matter with MDEQ in 2006. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $13.0 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through June 30, 2005. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $385,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. Granite City Granite City Works received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004 for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occur when coke is pushed out of the ovens for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). The IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. The case is anticipated to be resolved by entering into a Consent Order in early 2006, which will include a revised pushing compliance plan and a penalty. IEPA has proposed a civil penalty of $175,000. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. 34 Table of Contents Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by Utah Department of Environmental Quality. In December 2005, a third party purchased the Geneva site and assumed Geneva Steel Companys rights and obligations under the asset sales agreement and the permit pursuant to a bankruptcy court order. U. S. Steel has reviewed environmental data concerning the site gathered by itself and third parties, has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations and has begun remediation on some areas of the site for which U. S. Steel has responsibility. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of remediation and post closure care of three hazardous waste impoundments to be $29.4 million. Other In February 2005, U. S. Steels lease for a third party to mine slag at the Gascola slag disposal site in Penn Hills, Pennsylvania was terminated. Current mining regulations require closure of the site. The cost to close the slag disposal site is estimated to be $2.8 million. This work will include contour of the highwalls and vegetative cover for the entire site. In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The Order allocated responsibility for remediation costs among U. S. Steel and two other parties. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $788,000, based on the agreed allocation factor of 26 percent. U. S. Steel is preparing a Remedial Action Plan (RAP) for the site for submittal to the North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural Resources (NCDENR) that will propose limited soil removal and monitored natural attenuation for groundwater beneath the site. The RAP is due to the NCDENR in April 2006. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its 50 percent share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.8 million. In 2005, KDHE and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service asserted a claim against U. S. Steel and SSB for natural resource damages at the site and nearby creek. The parties have agreed to settlement of this claim for a cash payment and U. S. Steels share is $247,875. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2006, are as follows: John J. Connelly 59 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 57 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer Gretchen R. Haggerty 50 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer David H. Lohr 52 Senior Vice PresidentEuropean Operations & President U. S. Steel Kosice Dan D. Sandman 57 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 56 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 58 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 51 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 35 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 57. As of January 31, 2006, there were 27,427 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment, and increased to $.10 per share effective with the June 2005 payment. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average closing price for U. S. Steels common stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of common shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2005, no unregistered shares were issued. 36 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table contains information about purchases by U. S. Steel of its equity securities during the period covered by this report. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased Average Price Paid per Share Total NumberOf SharesPurchased asPart ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans orPrograms Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under thePlans or Programs January 1 31, 2005 February 1 28, 2005 March 1 31, 2005 Quarter ended March 31, 2005 April 1 30, 2005 May 1 31, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 June 1 30, 2005 Quarter ended June 30, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 July 1 31, 2005 August 1 31, 2005 910,000 $ 42.04 910,000 7,090,000 September 1 30, 2005 300,000 $ 44.27 300,000 6,790,000 Quarter ended September 30, 2005 1,210,000 $ 42.59 1,210,000 6,790,000 October 1 31, 2005 200,000 $ 36.30 200,000 6,590,000 November 1 30, 2005 2,410,000 $ 40.15 2,410,000 4,180,000 December 1 31, 2005 2,000,000 $ 48.90 2,000,000 2,180,000 Quarter ended December 31, 2005 4,610,000 $ 43.78 4,610,000 2,180,000 With the exception of the shares repurchased in May 2005, the above shares were purchased pursuant to the U. S. Steel Common Stock Repurchase Program, which was announced on July 26, 2005 and allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. The above purchases were all made in the open market. On January 31, 2006, U. S. Steel announced the replacement of this repurchase program with a new program having the authority to purchase up to eight million shares of its common stock. It is expected that the purchases will be made from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions. The timing of such purchases will be determined by the company based upon a number of factors including the market price of United States Steel Corporation common stock; the availability and pursuit of strategic initiatives including investment and acquisition opportunities; operating cash flow and internal capital requirements; and general economic conditions in the United States and Europe. Of the shares repurchased in May 2005, 48,638 were purchased pursuant to the exercise by Non Officer Restricted Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan, and the remainder were purchased pursuant to the exercise by 2002 Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan. 37 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) Adjusted(a) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001(b) Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(c) $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 $ 6,949 $ 6,286 Income (loss) from operations(d) 1,439 1,625 (719 ) 123 (404 ) Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(d) 910 1,121 (363 ) 81 (211 ) Net income (loss)(d) $ 910 $ 1,135 $ (420 ) $ 81 $ (211 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) basic $ 7.87 $ 9.87 $ (3.67 ) $ 0.83 $ (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.72 (3.67 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Net income (loss)(e) basic 7.87 10.00 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.83 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Dividends paid(f) 0.38 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.55 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 9,822 $ 11,064 $ 7,897 $ 7,991 $ 8,332 Capitalization: Debt(g) $ 1,612 $ 1,371 $ 1,933 $ 1,434 $ 1,466 Stockholders equity 3,324 4,074 1,151 2,042 2,501 Total capitalization $ 4,936 $ 5,445 $ 3,084 $ 3,476 $ 3,967 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements and the Five Year Financial Summary. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation. On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The income statement for the year ended December 31, 2001 represents a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the sale of the mining assets, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. The increase in net sales from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of a $104 million impairment of receivables that was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected restructuring charges, higher pension and OPEB costs and increased compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. (e) See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (f) For year 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (g) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2002 to 2003 was mainly due to the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May 2003. 38 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the seventh largest steel producer in the world and the second largest integrated steel producer in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to implement our strategy to continue to increase our value added product mix; to expand our global business platform; to improve our capital structure and strengthen our balance sheet; to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets. In Europe, U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing European markets, and to invest in value added facilities, including an automotive hot dip galvanizing line that is currently under construction. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the sustainability of higher steel prices; the cost of purchased raw materials and energy; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has resulted in volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States in 2005 were lower than 2004 levels. Import levels may increase in 2006 depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, consumption in the United States versus other regions and foreign production levels. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on 39 Table of Contents historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2006. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting these rates, we utilize several Merrill Lynch Average AAA/AA Corporate Bond indexes and both the 30 year and the 10 year U. S. Treasury bond rates as a preliminary indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 5.75 percent to 5.50 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2006 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most non union benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2006. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $159 million in 2006. Total OPEB costs in 2006 are expected to be approximately $111 million. 40 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 1/2 percent change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and OPEB calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) (1/2%) 1/2% Expected return on plan assets Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension costs for 2006 $ 34 $ (34 ) Discount rate Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension & OPEB costs for 2006 $ 16 $ (17 ) Pension & OPEB liabilities at December 31, 2005 $ 430 $ (470 ) Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected OPEB costs for 2006 $ (8 ) $ 9 Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of its net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends, without regard to the one time repatriation in 2005, to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2005, net of the $300 million repatriation, amounted to approximately $1,276 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $400 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of 41 Table of Contents remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2005, total accruals for environmental remediation were $145 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. Change in Accounting Method During the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel changed its method of determining the cost of USSK inventories from the last in, first out (LIFO) method to the first in, first out (FIFO) method. Management considers the FIFO method to be preferable to the LIFO method for USSK because it creates consistency of the valuation method used for inventories within the USSE reportable segment and provides for comparability of the USSE segment with major international competitors. In accordance with FAS No. 154, prior period results have been adjusted to apply the new method retrospectively. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Segments During 2005, U. S. Steel had three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve domestic customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), container, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil Company LLC and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G Coatings Company L.P., which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with the former owner of USSB. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the USSB acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service center, appliance, container, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services and the management and development of real estate. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota and Delray Connecting Railroad Company, which were acquired from National. Prior to the sale on June 30, 2003 of U. S. Steels coal mines and related assets, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer values of steel rounds and bands supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs and may be adjusted quarterly if actual production costs warrant. For further information, see Note 6 to the Financial Statements. 42 Table of Contents Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales of U. S. Steel by segment for each of the last three years: (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2005 2004 2003(a) Flat rolled(b)(c) $ 8,813 $ 9,827 $ 6,401 USSE 3,336 2,839 1,817 Tubular 1,546 941 573 Straightline(c) 138 Total sales from reportable segments 13,695 13,607 8,929 Other Businesses(d) 344 368 399 Net sales $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Includes net sales from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. (d) Includes net sales from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business, and from the sale of coal prior to June 30, 2003, when U. S. Steel sold its coal mining business. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2005 versus Year Ended December 31, 2004 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 14 % 6 % 0 % 0 % 2 % 10 % USSE 2 % 14 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 6 % 52 % 5 % 0 % 1 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects 43 Table of Contents Total net sales in 2005 increased by $64 million compared to 2004. Sales for the Flat rolled segment were down 10 percent as the increases in Flat rolled average steel prices (up $43 per ton) were more than offset by lower sheet shipment volumes and lower trade shipments of coke. Sales for USSE increased by 18 percent mainly as a result of higher average steel prices (up $81 per ton). Tubular sales were up significantly due primarily to higher average prices (up $463 per ton), as well as increased shipment volumes and an improved product mix. Year Ended December 31, 2004 versus Year Ended December 31, 2003 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 12 % 34 % 4 % 0 % 4 % 54 % USSE 2 % 28 % 11 % 7 % 8 % 56 % Tubular 23 % 42 % 2 % 0 % 3 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects Total net sales in 2004 increased $4,647 million compared to 2003. Sales for the Flat rolled segment increased 54 percent mainly as a result of higher average realized prices (up $152 per ton), higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products; and higher sales on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill. Sales for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. USSE sales were up 56 percent mainly due to higher average realized prices (up $171 per ton), favorable changes in product mix and favorable foreign currency exchange rate effects. Sales for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. The 64 percent increase for Tubular was primarily due to higher average realized prices (up $233 per ton) and shipment volumes. Operating expenses Profit based union payments Results for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 included costs related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. All of these costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 % Change Allocated to segment results $ 115 $ 131 12 % Retiree benefit expenses 100 110 9 % Total $ 215 $ 241 11 % Payment amounts per the agreement with the USWA are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) to be contributed to the National Benefit Trust, the purpose of which (when established) is to assist National retirees with healthcare costs, based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item were calculated and recorded through the income statement in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. 44 Table of Contents Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $280 million in 2005, compared to $254 million in 2004 and $556 million in 2003. The costs in 2005, 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $23 million, $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The increase from 2004 to 2005 mainly reflected a lower asset base, which resulted in a higher amortization of net actuarial losses and a lower return on plan assets. Excluding the settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $109 million in 2005, $106 million in 2004 and $241 million in 2003. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $19 million in 2005, $18 million in 2004 and $15 million in 2003. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $698 million in 2005, compared to $739 million in 2004. The decline primarly reflected lower expenses for stock based and executive compensation, partially offset by higher pension costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower stock based compensation and lower OPEB costs. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for further details. 45 Table of Contents Income (loss) from operations:(a) Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(b) (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 Flat rolled(c) $ 602 $ 1,185 $ (54 ) USSE 502 439 214 Tubular 528 197 (25 ) Straightline(c) (70 ) Total income from reportable segments 1,632 1,821 65 Other Businesses 43 58 15 Segment income from operations $ 1,675 $ 1,879 $ 80 Retiree benefit expenses (267 ) (257 ) (107 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain 70 Stock appreciation rights 1 (23 ) (75 ) Workforce reduction charges (20 ) (17 ) (621 ) Environmental remediation at previously sold facility (20 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Asset impairments (57 ) Litigation items (25 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,439 $ 1,625 $ (719 ) (a) See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. (b) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. 46 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled segment income in 2005 declined by $583 million compared to 2004. The decrease primarily resulted from lower steel and commercial coke shipment volumes and higher costs for raw materials, outages, energy and labor. These were partially offset by increased prices for flat rolled products and higher transfer values for steel rounds supplied to Tubular. During 2005, the cost to produce tube rounds has increased dramatically and the transfer price for tube rounds supplied to Tubular, which had been established at the beginning of 2005 based on projected costs, was increased by $53 per ton effective April 1, 2005, by an additional $20 per ton effective July 1, 2005, and by an additional $46 per ton effective October 1, 2005. Capability utilization in 2005 was adversely affected by the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace as well as lower demand levels early in the year as a result of high service center and end customer inventory levels. Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. 47 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income of $502 million for 2005 increased by $63 million from 2004 due mainly to higher prices, partially offset by increased raw material and outage costs. USSE segment income for 2004 was $439 million, compared to income of $214 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. Capability utilization declined in 2003 and 2004 primarily due to the inclusion of USSB as one of its two blast furnaces was not operational until the third quarter of 2005. Capability utilization was also adversely affected in 2005 by the rebuild of our largest European blast furnace in Slovakia and in 2004 by operational difficulties with a blast furnace early in the year. 48 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular Tubular segment income of $528 million in 2005 reflected an improvement of $331 million compared to 2004. The increase resulted mainly from higher prices, partially offset by higher costs for steel rounds as discussed in Segment results for Flat rolled. Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of steel rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which were transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. Results for Other Businesses The decline in income from Other Businesses from $58 million in 2004 to $43 million in 2005 was mainly due to lower results at iron ore pellet operations due to lower trade sales and increased costs for natural gas, partially offset by higher intersegment sales and by improved results for real estate activities and transportation services. Other Businesses recorded income of $58 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services, partially offset by lower results for real estate activities. Items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain of $70 million in 2005 resulted from a personal property tax settlement with the city of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana (Gary property tax settlement) and reflected the reversal of accruals in excess of the settlement amount of $44 million. 49 Table of Contents Stock appreciation rights resulted in a credit to compensation expense of $1 million in 2005 and charges of $23 million and $75 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued from 1995 through 2003 and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. Workforce reduction charges of $20 million in 2005 reflected special termination benefits for a voluntary early retirement program offered to certain employees at USSK. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain coal seam gas interests and from the sale in June 2003 of our coal mines and related assets. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and recognition of certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Net interest and other financial costs Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(a) (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Net interest and other financial costs $ 72 $ 156 $ 167 Foreign currency losses (gains) 80 (36 ) (54 ) Adjustment from Gary property tax settlement (25 ) Adjustment related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes (38 ) (17 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 33 Total net interest and other financial costs $ 127 $ 115 $ 96 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Net interest and other financial costs in 2005 included a favorable adjustment of $25 million related to the Gary property tax settlement. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 also included a $33 million charge resulting from the early extinguishment of certain senior debt. Excluding these items, the $32 million increase in 2005 primarily reflected an unfavorable change in foreign currency effects. This was partially offset by lower debt levels resulting from the retirement of USSK long term debt in November 2004 and the redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004, higher interest income and lower interest on tax related liabilities. Excluding the previously identified items, the small increase in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected a smaller foreign currency gain, partially offset by higher interest income and 50 Table of Contents lower interest on tax related liabilities. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which was the functional currency of both prior to January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of our operations outside the United States was the U.S. dollar through December 31, 2005. As of January 1, 2006, the functional currency for USSK and USSB was changed from the U.S. dollar to the euro primarily because of significant changes in economic facts and circumstances as a result of Slovakias entry into the European Union and the subsequent entry of the Slovak koruna into the Exchange Rate Mechanizm II in preparation for Slovakias adoption of the euro. Other factors that contributed to this change are the evolution of USSE into an autonomous business segment, the settlement of its U.S. dollar denominated debt and the establishment of euro based debt facilities. This change in functional currency will be applied on a prospective basis. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2005 was $365 million, compared to $356 million in 2004 and a benefit of $452 million in 2003. The provision in 2005 included a charge of $37 million resulting from the $95 million pre tax gain from the Gary property tax settlement and a $16 million charge resulting from the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. During 2005, a current tax provision was booked for USSK because the provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 50 percent of its tax liability for years 2005 through 2009, compared to a 100 percent credit in previous years. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefit in 2003 included a favorable effect relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million. The tax provisions in all three years were primarily the result of pre tax results from domestic operations. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets of $472 million. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2005, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $14 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $81 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the cumulative losses experienced since the acquisition of USSB. If USSB generates sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $58 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2005 was $910 million, compared with $1,135 million in 2004 and with a net loss of $420 million in 2003. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2005 increased $480 million from year end 2004 primarily due to increased cash balances (see Cash Flows) and higher inventories, partially offset by a reduction in outstanding accounts receivable. The increase in inventories was mainly due to higher quantities of raw materials. The decrease in accounts receivables primarily resulted from lower sales in the fourth quarter of 2005, compared to the fourth quarter of 2004, due mainly to lower prices and shipment volumes for flat rolled products. 51 Table of Contents FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability was required for this plan. Consequently, entries were recorded that eliminated prepaid pensions, increased the intangible pension asset by $250 million and resulted in a net charge to equity of $1.37 billion, which increased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2005 increased $171 million from year end 2004 and long term deferred income tax liabilities were eliminated, primarily due to the establishment of federal and state deferred tax assets in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2005 increased $214 million from year end 2004 mainly due to the increase in short term debt and current maturities of long term debt, which primarily reflects amounts drawn against a one year revolving credit facility at USSK. The facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation of $300 million in foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities of $1,218 million in 2005 and $1,400 million in 2004 was more than adequate to cover investing and financing activities. In 2003, net cash provided from operating activities was $577 million, which was insufficient to cover the acquisitions of National and USSB. The shortfall was covered by the issuance of long term debt and preferred stock. Cash from operating activities was reduced by payments related to employee benefits as shown in the table below. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Employee Benefit Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ (130 ) $ (295 ) $ (16 ) OPEB payments not funded by trusts (213 ) (186 ) (60 ) Contributions to VEBA(a) (60 ) (30 ) Contributions to other OPEB trusts (22 ) (4 ) (19 ) Payments to multiemployer pension plans(b) (28 ) (50 )(c) Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts (24 ) (44 ) (15 ) Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ (477 ) $ (609 ) $ (110 ) (a) All were voluntary except for $10 million in 2005. (b) Primarily the Steelworkers Pension Trust. (c) Includes $11 million related to 2003 hours worked. 52 Table of Contents Capital expenditures were $741 million in 2005, $579 million in 2004 and $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $492 million in 2005 included spending for the major rebuild of the largest U. S. Steel blast furnace at Gary Works, for environmental projects at our iron ore operations and for coke oven thru wall repairs. European expenditures of $249 million included spending at USSK for air emission reduction projects for cokemaking and steelmaking facilities, for a new automotive galvanizing line, for construction of an air separation plant and for blast furnace upgrades; and spending at USSB for the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Domestic expenditures in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Tubular Operations and other smaller projects, the most significant of which were at Gary Works, Mon Valley Works and Minntac. European expenditures in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. 53 Table of Contents U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2005, totaled $82 million. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2005, was $53 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $156 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2005, leaving a balance of $1 million under this commitment. Capital expenditures for 2006 are expected to be approximately $700 million, reflecting approximately $440 million for domestic operations and $260 million for European operations. Domestic projects include the completion of the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace at Gary Works, acquisition of mobile, mining and other production equipment, and coke oven thru wall replacements at Clairton Works. We are also evaluating alternatives to add cokemaking capacity and to enhance energy recovery efficiency. Projects in Slovakia include continued spending for a new automotive galvanizing line, and continuing work on air emission reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include preparatory work for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace in 2007. The preceding statement concerning expected 2006 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2005 reflected amounts drawn against a USSK credit agreement that was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Common stock repurchased reflected cash utilized to repurchase 5.8 million shares of U. S. Steel common stock during 2005 in the open market. A U. S. Steel common stock repurchase program, which was announced during the third quarter of 2005, allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. On January 31, 2006, the Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004, which were used for the early redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004. This redemption is included in repayment of long term debt, which also reflects the retirement of long term USSK debt in November 2004. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock Series B Preferred Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2005 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.08 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2004 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2003 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 1.206 $ Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average market price for U. S. Steels common 54 Table of Contents stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Liquidity U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement to sell a revolving interest in eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries through a commercial paper conduit program with funding under the facility up to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. The Receivables Purchase Agreement expires on November 28, 2006. Qualifying accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. While the Receivables Purchase Agreement expires in November 2006, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed in the following paragraph and other debt obligations, any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 22, 2006. As of December 31, 2005, $500 million was available to be sold under this facility. U. S. Steel has a revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by a lien on our domestic inventory and receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement (Inventory Facility). The Inventory Facility contains restrictive covenants, many of which apply only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million, including a fixed charge coverage ratio test. In addition, a $100 million availability block may apply beginning May 1, 2008 until the 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes) are repaid, refinanced or defeased. Interest on borrowings is calculated based on either LIBOR or the agents prime rate using spreads based on facility availability as defined in the agreement. Although there were no amounts drawn against this facility at December 31, 2005, availability was $594 million due to $6 million of letters of credit issued against the facility. This facility expires in October 2009. At December 31, 2005, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. USSB was the sole obligor on a EUR 9.3 million committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility expired on September 27, 2005. On September 28, 2005, USSB entered into a new EUR 25 million facility (which approximated $30 million at December 31, 2005), which is secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods and expires September 28, 2008. At December 31, 2005, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. USSK is the sole obligor on a EUR 195 million revolving credit facility (which approximated $231 million at December 31, 2005) that expires in December 2006. The facility bears interest at EURIBOR plus 20 basis points. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on undrawn amounts. At December 31, 2005, this facility was fully drawn. This facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes, and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). 55 Table of Contents On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.5 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $114 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4 million during 2005, and does not expect any material changes in 2006. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2005, in the amount of $2 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as $556 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases and $41 million relating to certain operating leases, may be declared immediately due and payable. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2005: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents(a) $ 1,452 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 56 Amounts available under USSB credit facility 30 Total estimated liquidity(b) $ 2,632 (a) Excludes $27 million of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. (b) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U.S.Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (a) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U. S. Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (b) Excludes $27 million and $16 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity has increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. 57 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2005, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2006 2007through2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,613 $ 249 $ 394 $ 413 $ 557 Operating leases(b) 376 106 121 52 97 Capital commitments(c) 135 49 33 53 Environmental commitments(c) 145 26 119 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e) 29 51 (e) Other postretirement benefits (f) 225 530 500 (f) Total contractual obligations $ 2,269 (g) $ 684 $ 1,129 $ 965 $ 826 (g) (a) See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2006 through 2010 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2005, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $130 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $24 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in 2006. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $13 million to pension plans not funded by trusts in 2006. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension 58 Table of Contents plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust to be established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2005, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2006 2007through 2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 83 $ 75 $ $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 16 4 12 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 34 34 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 10 8 1 1 Contingent liabilities: Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 3,886 2,507 1,078 195 106 Total commercial commitments $ 4,179 $ 2,594 $ 1,079 $ 195 $ 311 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 19 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works co generation facility in the second quarter of 2006; therefore, the agreement for the supply of electric power (previously expiring in 2011) will be terminated. U. S. Steel has an off balance sheet arrangement for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. This operating lease arrangement is with a special purpose trust (Trust). The Trust financed the construction of the facility and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficiaries of the Trust. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of this entity and there is no assurance that U. S. Steel will purchase the facility at lease expiration. U. S. Steels transactions with the Trust are limited to the operating lease agreement, and the associated lease expense is included in cost of sales on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate this Trust because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. 59 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement resulted in an increase of approximately $45 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance in order to meet environmental standards as established from time to time by Slovak law. One current compliance project is a dedusting system 60 Table of Contents for Steel Shop No. 2 to meet air emission standards for particulates. These standards are applicable January 1, 2007 and USSK is attempting to complete the project by this deadline; however, project completion is currently anticipated for the first quarter 2007. Failure to meet the applicable deadline could result in the imposition of corrective measures by the Slovak Ministry of Environment (Ministry). While the United States has not ratified the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC), in order to provide EU member states a mechanism for fulfilling their Kyoto commitments, has established its own CO2 limits for every EU member state. In 2004, the EC approved a national allocation plan for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias originally proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent, and following that decision the Ministry imposed an 8 percent reduction to the amount of CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. Subsequently, USSK filed legal actions agains the EC and the Ministry challenging these reductions. In addition, USSK is evaluating a number of alternatives ranging from purchasing CO2 allowances to reducing steel production, and it is not currently possible to predict the impact of these decisions on USSK. However, the actual shortfall of allowances for the initial allocation period (2005 through 2007) will depend upon a number of internal and external variables and the effect of that shortfall on USSK cannot be predicted at this time. Based on the fair value of the anticipated shortfall of allowances related to production in 2005, a long term other liability of $4 million has been charged to income and recorded on the balance sheet. Domestically, while ratification of the Kyoto Protocol does not seem likely in the near term, there remains the possibility that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may impose limitations on greenhouse gases. The impact on U. S. Steels domestic operations cannot be estimated. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Domestic: Capital $ 66 $ 24 $ 8 Compliance Operating & maintenance 305 241 206 Remediation(b) 23 18 38 Total Domestic $ 394 $ 283 $ 252 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 97 $ 22 Compliance Operating & maintenance 12 8 10 Remediation(b) 3 3 3 Total USSE $ 82 $ 108 $ 35 Total U. S. Steel $ 476 $ 391 $ 287 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 18 percent of total capital expenditures in 2005, 21 percent in 2004 and 10 percent in 2003. Compliance expenditures represented 3 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2005, 2 percent in 2004 and 3 percent in 2003. Remediation spending during 2003 to 2005 was mainly related to remediation 61 Table of Contents activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2005, U. S. Steel accrued $49 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2005, was $145 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2006. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $113 million in 2006, $61 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2006 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $76 million in 2007, including $60 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. The Senate Judiciary Committee has recommended to the Senate legislation that, if enacted, would create an asbestos trust fund that would provide benefits to asbestos claimants funded by payments over 30 years of 62 Table of Contents $136 billion from companies and their insurers that have been involved in asbestos litigation, including U. S. Steel along with thousands of others. The legislation would provide an administrative system to process asbestos claims instead of resolution through judicial proceedings. The amount that a company would be required to pay under the current version of the legislation would depend upon its placement among several tiers and sub tiers, based upon corporate revenue and prior expenditures related to asbestos defense costs, settlements and judgments. Management estimates that if the legislation were adopted in the form proposed by the Judiciary Committee, the annual cost to U. S. Steel would be somewhat greater than the historical cost of asbestos defense and settlement. It is unclear whether any legislation will be adopted and any final legislation may be substantially different than the version recommended by the Judiciary Committee. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional detail concerning asbestos litigation, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. Outlook for 2006 The first quarter of 2006 looks positive for our domestic and European markets. Service center and end customer inventories are balanced and we expect continued strength in the energy markets served by our Tubular segment. For Flat rolled, first quarter 2006 shipments are expected to improve compared to the fourth quarter of 2005 due to the restart of the Gary No. 14 blast furnace, with prices at or above the fourth quarter level. We expect higher raw material costs to be largely offset by reduced energy and outage costs. For U. S. Steel Europe, first quarter shipments are expected to increase and average realized prices and costs should be consistent with fourth quarter levels. However, first quarter results will be negatively affected by production curtailments at Serbian operations as a result of natural gas supply disruptions and could also be negatively affected by potential job related actions by a labor union at USSB that is dissatisfied with the 2006 wage agreement, which became effective upon approval of the other unions. Shipments and average realized prices for the Tubular segment in the first quarter of 2006 are expected to be in line with the fourth quarter. First quarter 2006 results for Other Businesses should decline from the fourth quarter due primarily to normal seasonal variations at our iron ore operations in Minnesota. Total costs for pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately $300 million in 2006, compared to $390 million in 2005. Accounting Standards In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123R. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value 63 Table of Contents of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved a new rule that delayed the effective date of FAS 123R. Except for this deferral of the effective date, the guidance in FAS 123R is unchanged. Under the SECs rule, FAS 123R is now effective for U. S. Steel for annual rather than interim periods that begin after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply this Statement to all awards granted on or after January 1, 2006 and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after January 1, 2006 for the portion of outstanding awards for which requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for proforma disclosures. Currently, U. S. Steel expects that the effect of adopting this Statement on 2006 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $10 million. In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. This Interpretation clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists. U. S. Steel adopted the provisions of this Interpretation in the second quarter of 2005. There were no financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Interpretation. In May 2005, the FASB issued FAS 154, which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. FAS 154 eliminates the requirement to include the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle in the income statement and instead requires that changes in accounting principle be retroactively applied. FAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and correction of errors made on or after January 1, 2006, with early adoption permitted. U. S. Steel began applying the provisions of this statement in the fourth quarter of 2005. In February 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. This Statement resolves issues addressed in Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. D1, Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets, and is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect any financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Statement. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its market risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in income from operations. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain transactions, primarily related to forecasted natural gas purchases. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the natural gas purchase is settled. Once the purchase is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. 64 Table of Contents Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. U. S. Steel had no open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2005. Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in closing commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004 are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Assuming a Hypothetical PriceDecrease of: 2005 2004 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Incremental Decrease in Income Before Taxes: Zinc $ 2.9 $ 7.2 Natural Gas $ 1.8 $ 4.4 Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2005, may cause future pretax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $7 million in 2005, compared to gains of $4 million in 2004 and $1 million in 2003. These gains were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For carrying amount and fair value of derivative commodity instruments, see Note 26 to the Financial Statements. 65 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2005 and 2004 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 18 $ $ 7 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 1,568 $ 36 $ 1,419 $ 50 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2005, and 2004, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. (d) For additional information, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $36 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $23.1 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $61.6 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2005 euro forward rates would result in a $8.5 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 66 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. USSK and USSB conduct business primarily in Central and Western Europe and are subject to market conditions in those areas which are influenced by many of the same factors that affect domestic markets, as well as matters peculiar to international markets such as quotas and tariffs. USSK and USSB are affected by worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry, the cyclical nature of demand for steel products and the sensitivity of that demand to worldwide general economic conditions. In particular, USSK and USSB are subject to economic conditions, environmental regulations and political factors in Europe, which if changed could negatively affect results of operations and cash flow. These economic conditions, environmental regulations and political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation, limits on emissions (see Environmental Matters for a discussion regarding carbon dioxide emissions limits, which are 12 Table of Contents applicable to European Union (EU) member countries), and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSK and USSB are affected by the volatility of raw materials prices, and USSB has recently been affected by curtailments of natural gas available in the one pipeline that supplies Serbia. USSK is subject to foreign currency exchange risks because its revenues are primarily in euros and its costs are primarily in U.S. dollars and Slovak koruna. USSB is subject to foreign currency exchange risks because its revenues are primarily in euros and Serbian dinars and its costs are primarily in U.S. dollars and Serbian dinars. Facilities and Locations Flat rolled With the exception of the Fairfield pipe mill, the operating results of all the facilities within U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills are included in Flat rolled. These facilities include Gary Works, Great Lakes Works, Mon Valley Works, Granite City Works and Fairfield Works. Gary Works, located at Gary, Indiana, has annual raw steel production capability of 7.5 million tons. Gary Works has three coke batteries, four blast furnaces, six steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit and four continuous slab casters. In January 2006, we completed a major rebuild of our largest blast furnace, which is located at Gary Works. Gary Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells several coke by products. Finishing facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, three temper mills, a double cold reduction line, two tin coating lines, an electrolytic galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets and tin mill products. Gary Works also produces strip mill plate. The Midwest Plant and East Chicago Tin are operated as part of Gary Works. The Midwest Plant, located in Portage, Indiana, finishes hot rolled bands. Midwest facilities include a pickling line, two cold reduction mills, two temper mills, a double cold reduction mill, two hot dip galvanizing lines, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. Principal products include tin mill products and hot dip galvanized, cold rolled and electrical lamination sheets. Midwest was acquired from National. East Chicago Tin is located in East Chicago, Indiana. Facilities include a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, a temper mill, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. Great Lakes Works, located in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan, has annual raw steel production capability of 3.8 million tons. Great Lakes facilities include three blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a high speed pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, a temper mill, an electrolytic galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets. Great Lakes Works was acquired from National. Mon Valley Works consists of the Edgar Thomson Plant, located in Braddock, Pennsylvania; the Irvin Plant, located in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania; the Fairless Plant, located in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania; and Clairton Works, located in Clairton, Pennsylvania. Mon Valley Works has annual raw steel production capability of 2.9 million tons. Facilities at the Edgar Thomson Plant include two blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit and a slab caster. Irvin Plant facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, a cold reduction mill, a temper mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. The Fairless Plant operates a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products from Mon Valley Works include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, as well as coke produced at Clairton Works. Clairton Works is comprised of twelve coke batteries, two of which are operated for the 1314B Partnership, which is discussed below. Clairton (including the 1314B Partnership) produced 4.3 million tons of coke in 2005, 4.3 million tons in 2004 and 4.5 million tons in 2003. Approximately 76 percent of annual production (including the 1314B Partnership) was consumed by U. S. Steel facilities in 2005 and the remainder was sold to other domestic steel producers. Several coke by products are sold to the chemicals and raw materials industries. U. S. Steel is the sole general partner of and owns an equity interest in the 1314B Partnership. As general partner, U. S. Steel is responsible for operating and selling coke and by products from the partnerships two coke batteries located at U. S. Steels Clairton Works. U. S. Steels share of profits during 2005 was 45.75 percent. U. S. Steel consolidates the results of the 1314B Partnership in its financial statements. 13 Table of Contents Granite City Works, located in Granite City, Illinois, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.8 million tons. Granite Citys facilities include two coke batteries, two blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Granite City Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells several coke by products. Principal products include hot rolled and coated sheets. Granite City Works was acquired from National. Fairfield Works, located in Fairfield, Alabama, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.4 million tons. Fairfield Works facilities included in Flat rolled are a blast furnace, three steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, a slab caster, a rounds caster, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, two temper/skin pass mills, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, and steel rounds for Tubular. ProCoil, a wholly owned subsidiary located in Canton, Michigan, slits and cuts steel coils to desired specifications, provides laser welding services and warehouses material to service automotive customers. ProCoil was acquired from National. U. S. Steel participates in a number of joint ventures which are included in Flat rolled, most of which are conducted through subsidiaries or other separate legal entities. All such joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method. The significant joint ventures and other investments are described below, all of which are 50 percent owned except Feralloy Processing Company (FPC) and Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V. (Acero Prime), in which U. S. Steel holds 49 percent and 40 percent interests, respectively. For financial information regarding joint ventures and other investments, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel and Pohang Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (POSCO) of South Korea participate in a joint venture, USS POSCO Industries (USS POSCO), located in Pittsburg, California. The joint venture markets high quality sheet and tin mill products, principally in the western United States. USS POSCO produces cold rolled sheets, galvanized sheets, tin plate and tin free steel from hot bands principally provided by U. S. Steel and POSCO, which each provide about 50 percent of its requirements. Total shipments by USS POSCO were 1.2 million tons in 2005, 1.4 million tons in 2004 and 1.2 million tons in 2003. U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. of Japan participate in a joint venture, PRO TEC Coating Company (PRO TEC). PRO TEC owns and operates two hot dip galvanizing lines in Leipsic, Ohio, which primarily serve the automotive industry. PRO TECs annual capability is approximately 1.2 million tons. U. S. Steel supplies PRO TEC with all of its requirements of cold rolled sheets and markets all of its products. Total shipments by PRO TEC were 1.1 million tons in 2005, 2004 and 2003. U. S. Steel and Severstal North America, Inc. participate in Double Eagle Steel Coating Company (DESCO), a joint venture which operates an electrogalvanizing facility located in Dearborn, Michigan. The facility can coat both sides of sheet steel with free zinc or zinc alloy coatings, primarily for use in the automotive industry. DESCO processes steel supplied by each partner and each partner markets its share of the output. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, DESCOs total production was 693 thousand tons, 650 thousand tons and 683 thousand tons, respectively, of electrogalvanized steel. U. S. Steel and Mittal Steel Co. NV participate in the Double G joint venture, a hot dip galvanizing and Galvalume&reg; facility located near Jackson, Mississippi, which primarily serves the construction industry. U. S. Steels interest was acquired from National on May 20, 2003. Double Gs production was 234 thousand tons in 2005, 316 thousand tons in 2004 and 288 thousand tons in 2003. U. S. Steel and Worthington Industries, Inc. participate in a joint venture known as Worthington Specialty Processing, which operates a steel processing facility in Jackson, Michigan. The plant is operated by Worthington Industries, Inc. The facility is capable of processing master steel coils into both slit coils and sheared first operation blanks including rectangles, trapezoids, parallelograms and chevrons. It is designed to meet specifications for the automotive, appliance, furniture and metal door industries. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, Worthington Specialty Processing shipments were 342 thousand tons, 326 thousand tons and 282 thousand tons, respectively. 14 Table of Contents U. S. Steel and Olympic Steel, Inc. participate in a joint venture to process laser welded sheet steel blanks, Olympic Laser Processing (OLP). Due to challenging business conditions, it was decided in January 2006 to shut down OLP. FPC, a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Feralloy Corporation, converts coiled hot strip mill plate into sheared and flattened plates for shipment to customers. The plant, located in Portage, Indiana, has a temper mill linked to a cut to length leveling line. The line provides stress free, leveled product with a superior surface finish. FPC provides processing services to the joint venture partners and other steel consumers and service centers. FPC had annual revenues of $6.6 million in 2005, $5.1 million in 2004 and $3.4 million in 2003. Chrome Deposit Corporation (CDC), a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Court Holdings, reconditions finishing work rolls, which require grinding, chrome plating, and or texturing. The rolls are used on rolling mills to provide superior finishes on steel sheets. CDC has seven locations across the United States, with all locations near major steel mills. In 2005, 2004, and 2003, CDC had annual revenues of $18.3 million, $19.9 million and $19.0 million, respectively. U. S. Steel, along with Feralloy Mexico, S.R.L. de C.V. and Mitsui Development Co., Inc., participates in a joint venture, Acero Prime. Acero Prime operates in Mexico with facilities in San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, and a leased warehouse in Toluca. Acero Prime provides slitting, warehousing and logistical services. U. S. Steel carries out a wide range of applied research, development and technical support functions at a leased Research and Technology Center located in Monroeville, Pennsylvania. In 2006, the research, development and technical support functions currently performed in Monroeville will be relocated to a newly acquired facility in Munhall, Pennsylvania. U. S. Steel also owns an automotive technical center in Troy, Michigan. This 43,000 square foot facility brings together automotive sales, service, distribution and logistics services, product technology and applications research in one location. Much of U. S. Steels work in developing new grades of steel to meet the demands of automakers for high strength, light weight and formable materials is carried out at this location. USSE USSE consists of USSK, USSB and several subsidiaries of each. USSK is headquartered at its integrated facility in Kosice, Slovakia, which has annual raw steel production capability of 5.0 million tons. This facility has two coke batteries, three blast furnaces, four steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, two dual strand casters, a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, a temper mill, a temper/double cold reduction mill, two hot dip galvanizing lines, two tin coating lines, three dynamo lines and a color coating line. In addition, USSK owns 100 percent of Walzwerk Finow GmbH, located in eastern Germany, which produces and ships about 90 thousand tons per year of welded precision steel tubes and cold rolled specialty shaped sections from both cold rolled and hot rolled product supplied primarily by USSK. USSK also has facilities for manufacturing heating radiators, spiral welded pipe and refractories. USSB has an integrated plant in Smederevo, Serbia which has annual raw steel production capability of 2.4 million tons. Facilities at this plant include two blast furnaces, three steelmaking vessels, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, a temper mill and a temper/double cold reduction mill. Other facilities include a tin mill in Sabac, a limestone mine in Kucevo, a river port and a foundry, all located in Serbia. Tubular Seamless products are produced on a mill located at Fairfield Works in Fairfield, Alabama, and on two mills located in Lorain, Ohio. ERW products are produced on a mill located in McKeesport, Pennsylvania, which is operated by Camp Hill Corporation. 15 Table of Contents Other Businesses U. S. Steels iron ore pellet operations are located at Mt. Iron (Minntac) and Keewatin (Keetac), Minnesota. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, these operations produced 22.3 million, 22.9 million and 18.6 million tons of iron ore pellets, respectively, including those produced at Keewatin after its acquisition in May 2003. U. S. Steel owns 100 percent of Transtar, Inc. Transtar and its subsidiaries (the Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company in Illinois and Indiana; the Lake Terminal Railroad Company in Ohio; Union Railroad Company and McKeesport Connecting Railroad Company in Pennsylvania; the Birmingham Southern Railroad Company, Fairfield Southern Company, Inc., Mobile River Terminal Company, and Warrior and Gulf Navigation Company, all located in Alabama; and Delray Connecting Railroad Company in Michigan, which was acquired from National) comprise U. S. Steels transportation business. U. S Steel owns and develops various real estate assets, which include approximately 200,000 acres of surface rights primarily in Alabama, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota and Pennsylvania. Raw Materials and Energy Historically, supplies of raw materials and energy used to produce steel were more than sufficient and costs were relatively stable. In the past several years there has been a tightening of raw material availability and substantial increases in costs. As an integrated producer, U. S. Steels primary raw materials are iron units in the form of iron ore or taconite, carbon units in the form of coal and coke (which is produced from coal) and steel scrap. The amounts of such raw materials needed to produce a ton of steel will fluctuate based upon the specifications of the final steel products, the quality of raw materials and, to a lesser extent, differences among steel producing equipment. In broad terms, U. S. Steel estimates that it consumes about 1.4 tons of coal to produce one ton of coke and that it consumes over 1.2 tons of iron ore pellets and a little less than 0.4 tons of coke for each ton of raw steel produced. While we believe that these estimates are useful for planning purposes, substantial variations occur. Iron Ore With the iron ore facilities at Minntac and Keetac, which contain an estimated 808 million short tons of recoverable reserves, U. S. Steel has the capability of being completely self sufficient for its domestic iron ore requirements to support blast furnace production. Recoverable tons means the tons of product that can be used internally or delivered to a customer after considering mining and beneficiation or preparation losses. Any surplus pellet production is sold to domestic and foreign consumers, including USSE. Depending on market conditions and transportation costs, internal iron ore requirements may be satisfied by the purchase of pellets from third parties, permitting the sale of additional pellets on the open market. USSE purchases most of its iron ore requirements from third parties, but has purchased iron ore from U. S. Steels domestic iron ore facilities. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of iron ore, adequate to meet USSEs needs, are available at competitive market prices. The main sources of iron ore for USSE are Russia and Ukraine, with supplemental supply from Slovakia, Venezuela and Brazil. 16 Table of Contents Coal All of U. S. Steels domestic coal requirements are purchased from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of coal adequate to meet its domestic needs are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Coal supplies were disrupted during late 2003 and throughout 2004 largely due to the declarations of force majeure by several of U. S. Steels major coal suppliers. Supplies were disrupted in early 2005 due to river lock closures resulting from flooding. U. S. Steel has entered into contracts at competitive market prices for its domestic coal requirements in 2006. USSKs coal requirements are purchased from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of coal adequate to meet USSKs needs are available from third parties at competitive market prices. The main sources of coal for USSK include Poland, the Czech Republic, the United States, Russia and Ukraine. USSK has entered into contracts at competitive market prices for its coal requirements in 2006. USSB, which purchases coke, does not currently require coal to support its operations. Coke Domestically, U. S. Steel operates cokemaking facilities at its Clairton, Pennsylvania; Gary, Indiana; and Granite City, Illinois locations. These facilities have the capability to supply the majority of U. S. Steels domestic metallurgical coke requirements for blast furnace production. A prior relationship with a coke facility adjacent to the Great Lakes Works expired at year end 2005. Blast furnace coal injection processes at Gary Works, Great Lakes Works and Fairfield Works reduce U. S. Steels domestic coke requirements. U. S. Steel routinely sells or swaps a portion of the coke production from its Clairton facility. To the extent that it is necessary or appropriate considering existing needs and or applicable transportation costs, coke is purchased from or swapped with domestic and international suppliers or other end users. We are evaluating alternatives to add cokemaking capacity and to enhance energy recovery efficiencies. USSK operates a cokemaking facility that primarily serves the steelmaking operations at USSK. Depending on market conditions and operational schedules, USSK may purchase small quantities of coke on the open market and may occasionally supply a portion of USSBs needs. Blast furnace coal injection processes at USSK reduce its coke requirements. USSB purchases predominantly all of its coke requirements from third party suppliers. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of coke, adequate to meet USSKs and USSBs needs, are available at competitive market prices. The main sources of coke for USSK and USSB in 2006 are expected to be Poland, Ukraine, Russia, Bosnia, China and the Czech Republic. 17 Table of Contents Limestone All domestic limestone requirements are purchased from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of limestone adequate to meet its domestic needs are readily available from third parties at competitive market prices. All limestone requirements for USSK are purchased from a third party under a long term contract. USSB sources approximately 50 percent of its limestone requirements from third party suppliers with the balance coming from production from a limestone mine under its direct control. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of limestone adequate to meet USSBs needs are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Scrap and Other Materials Supplies of steel scrap, tin, zinc and other alloying and coating materials required to fulfill U. S. Steels requirements for domestic and European operations are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Generally, approximately 40 percent of U. S. Steels scrap requirements is generated through its normal operations. U. S. Steel utilizes some hedging and derivative purchasing practices with regard to domestic requirements for tin and zinc. Natural Gas U. S. Steel purchases all of its domestic natural gas requirements from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of natural gas adequate to meet its domestic needs are available from third parties at competitive market prices. Currently, about 60 percent of U. S. Steels domestic natural gas purchases are based on solicited bids, on a monthly basis, from various vendors; approximately 15 percent are made through long term contracts; and the remainder are made daily. U. S. Steel utilizes some hedging and derivative purchasing practices with regard to domestic requirements for natural gas because of the volatility of natural gas markets. As shown in the graph, domestic natural gas prices have increased significantly over the last several years. USSK and USSB purchase their natural gas requirements from third parties. U. S. Steel believes that supplies of natural gas, adequate to meet USSEs needs, are normally available from third parties at competitive market prices. Natural gas prices in Slovakia and Serbia have been less volatile than in the U.S.; however, prices increased in 2004 and 2005 and are expected to increase again in 2006. USSB has recently experienced curtailments of its natural gas supplies. Serbia relies upon a single pipeline system for its natural gas, making USSB and other industrial customers vulnerable to disruptions in this system. Commercial Sales of Product U. S. Steel characterizes its sales as contract if sold pursuant to an agreement with a one year or longer duration and as spot if sold pursuant to a shorter term contract. In 2005 approximately 50%, 25% and 5% of sales by Flat rolled, USSE and Tubular, respectively, were contract sales. U. S. Steel does not consider sales backlog to be a meaningful measure since volume commitments in most contracts are based on each customers specific monthly orders. 18 Table of Contents Environmental Matters U. S. Steel maintains a comprehensive environmental policy overseen by the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of the U. S. Steel Board of Directors. The Environmental Affairs organization has the responsibility to ensure that U. S. Steels operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that are in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The Executive Environmental Committee, which is comprised of officers of U. S. Steel, is charged with reviewing its overall performance with various environmental compliance programs. Also, U. S. Steel, largely through the American Iron and Steel Institute and the International Iron and Steel Institute, continues its involvement in the development of various air, water and waste regulations with federal, state and local governments and international stakeholders concerning the implementation of cost effective pollution reduction strategies. The domestic businesses of U. S. Steel are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act (CAA) with respect to air emissions; the Clean Water Act (CWA) with respect to water discharges; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances. In addition, all states where U. S. Steel operates have similar laws dealing with the same matters. These laws are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable due in part to the fact that certain implementing regulations for laws such as RCRA and the CAA have not yet been promulgated or in certain instances are undergoing revision. These environmental laws and regulations, particularly the CAA, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet CAA obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be adversely affected. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSKs environmental expenses in 2005 included fees and or penalties totaling approximately $8 million. There are no legal proceedings pending against USSK involving environmental matters. USSK has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance in order to meet environmental standards as established from time to time by Slovak law. One current compliance project is a dedusting system for Steel Shop No. 2 to meet air emission standards for particulates. These standards are applicable January 1, 2007 and USSK is attempting to complete the project by this deadline; however, project completion is currently anticipated for the first quarter 2007. Failure to meet the applicable deadline could result in the imposition of corrective measures by the Slovak Ministry of Environment (Ministry). While the United States has not ratified the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC), in order to provide EU member states a mechanism for fulfilling their Kyoto commitments, has established its own CO2 limits for every EU member state. In 2004, the EC approved a national allocation plan for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias originally proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent, and following that decision the Ministry imposed an 8 percent reduction to the amount of CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. Subsequently, USSK filed legal actions agains the EC and the Ministry 19 Table of Contents challenging these reductions. In addition, USSK is evaluating a number of alternatives ranging from purchasing CO2 allowances to reducing steel production, and it is not currently possible to predict the impact of these decisions on USSK. However, the actual shortfall of allowances for the initial allocation period (2005 through 2007) will depend upon a number of internal and external variables and the effect of that shortfall on USSK cannot be predicted at this time. Based on the fair value of the anticipated shortfall of allowances related to production in 2005, a long term other liability of $4 million has been charged to income and recorded on the balance sheet. Domestically, while ratification of the Kyoto Protocol does not seem likely in the near term, there remains the possibility that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may impose limitations on greenhouse gases. The impact on U. S. Steels domestic operations cannot be estimated. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro. These laws are currently less restrictive than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Air The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a federally mandated operating permit program and civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. The principal impact of the CAA on U. S. Steel is on the cokemaking and primary steelmaking operations, as described in this section. The CAA requires the regulation of hazardous air pollutants and development and promulgation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) Standards. It was determined in 1995 that the Chrome Electroplating MACT did not apply to steel mill sources; however, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) stated that MACT standards applicable to these sources would be forthcoming. To date, there has been no action taken. U. S. Steel facilities that potentially would be affected are the electrolytic tinning lines at Gary Works and the tin free steel lines at East Chicago Tin and the Midwest Plant. The EPA MACT standards for integrated iron and steel plants require compliance by May 22, 2006. The taconite iron ore processing MACT requires compliance by October 30, 2006. U. S. Steel anticipates that additional emissions control equipment will be needed to comply with the taconite iron ore processing MACT at Minntac. Keetac has installed an air scrubber for that purpose. Costs associated with compliance with these MACT standards are included in the capital expenditures disclosed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. The CAA specifically addressed the regulation and control of coke oven batteries. U. S. Steel has elected to comply with the Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) standards and believes it will be able to meet the current LAER standards. The LAER standards are expected to be further revised in 2010 and additional health risk based standards are expected to be adopted in 2020. The Phase II Coke MACT for pushing, quenching and battery stacks requires compliance by April 14, 2006. The EPA is developing regulations to address Regional Haze, the impact of which could be significant to U. S. Steel, but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated until the final regulations are promulgated and, more importantly, the states implement their State Implementation Plans covering their standards. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains the necessary discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts its operations to be in compliance with such permits. For 20 Table of Contents additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 21,000 domestically and approximately 25,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in December 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Most employees at USSB are represented by three unions and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. On February 10, 2006, USSB and two of the three unions agreed to the hourly base earnings for 2006 and signed an annex to the collective bargaining agreement. As of the date of this filing, the largest labor union at USSB had not agreed to the negotiated 2006 hourly base earnings or signed the annex. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. 21 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income (loss) by reportable segments and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 6 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 60 and F 61. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is cyclical and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows general economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in various smaller geographic areas. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess world supply. This has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness, which have not been offset by commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. Rapidly growing demand and supply in China and other developing economies may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years steel consumption in China and other developing economies such as India has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by developing plans to rapidly increase steel production capability in these countries. Steel production, especially in China, has been expanding rapidly and could be well in excess of Chinese demand depending on continuing demand growth rates. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any significant Chinese capacity excess could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if excess production is exported to other markets. Increases in prices and limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. Steel producers require large amounts of raw materials iron ore or other iron containing material, steel scrap, coke and coal for integrated producers such as U. S. Steel, and scrap for mini mill producers. Both integrated and mini mill producers consume large amounts of energy. Over the last several years, prices for raw materials and energy, in particular natural gas, have increased significantly. In many cases these price increases have been a greater percentage than price increases for the sale of steel products. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in receiving sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner, resulting in production curtailments. These production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins and may continue to do so in the future. 22 Table of Contents Increased imports of steel products into the U.S. could negatively affect domestic steel prices and demand levels and reduce profitability of domestic producers. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 25 percent of the domestic steel market in 2005, 26 percent in 2004 and 19 percent in 2003. Foreign competitors typically have lower labor costs, and are often owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Import levels may also be impacted by decisions of government agencies under U.S. trade laws. Increases in future levels of imported steel could reduce future market prices and demand levels for domestic steel. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Domestic steel producers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the European Union and Japan are generally comparable to domestic standards, other nations have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to unplanned equipment failures. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Availability of supplies could also be affected by logistical disruptions (shortages of barges or rail cars). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. Risk Factors concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Many lawsuits have been filed against U. S. Steel involving asbestos related injuries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and cash flow. U. S. Steel is a defendant in a large number of cases in which approximately 8,400 claimants actively allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. Many of these cases involve multiple claimants (often hundreds or thousands) and defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred). It is possible that we may experience large judgments against us in the future that could have an impact upon the number of future claims filed against us and on the amount of future settlements, which would have an adverse impact on our profitability and cash flow. Our retiree employee health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans covering most of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 114,000 current retirees and beneficiaries are receiving pension and or medical benefits. U. S. Steels underfunded benefit obligations for retiree medical and life insurance were $2.3 billion at year end 2005. Most of these underfunded obligations are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Other postretirement benefit expense is expected to be approximately $111 million in 2006. 23 Table of Contents Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Several domestic competitors provide defined contribution health care plans with contributions increased based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. Our defined benefit pension plan costs are higher than those of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We have noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering many of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. The funded status of these plans declined from an overfunded position of $1.2 billion at year end 2001 to an underfunded position of $606 million at year end 2005. Minimum contributions to these plans is controlled under ERISA and other government regulations and substantial cash contributions may be required. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Pension benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Most domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit pension plans, but may provide defined contribution pension plans with contributions increasing based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our profitability and cash flow. U. S. Steel is currently involved in approximately 60 remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to third parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Numerous domestic competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Domestic competitors that have obtained relief under the Bankruptcy Code may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors applicable to U. S. Steel The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Under the terms of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due 2008 and our 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010 (collectively, the Senior Notes), we are not able to pay dividends on capital stock unless we meet certain restricted payment tests. The terms of our indebtedness and our accounts receivable program contain restrictive provisions that may limit our flexibility. We have Senior Notes outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $726 million as of December 31, 2005. The Senior Notes impose significant restrictions on us such as limits on additional borrowings and certain investments and the use of funds from asset sales. Our $600 million revolving credit agreement secured by inventory prohibits us from selling certain principal properties and imposes additional restrictions if the amount available to be borrowed under that agreement is less than $100 million. Such restrictions include maintaining a fixed charge coverage ratio and limitations on capital expenditures and investments. The Senior Notes, the revolving credit agreement and some of our other loan facilities and leases have provisions that may cause a default under one of these agreements to become a default under the others. These covenants may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 24 Table of Contents Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. Any downgrade in our credit ratings would make raising capital more difficult, would increase the cost of future borrowings and would affect the terms on which we purchase goods and services. In addition, the fees payable under our receivables sales program would increase and the amount of receivables eligible for sale could be reduced. Change in control clauses may require us to immediately purchase or repay debt. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, inventory facility and various other loan documents, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately purchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. We may not have the financial resources to make these purchases and repayments, and a failure to purchase or repay such indebtedness would trigger cross acceleration clauses under the Senior Notes and other indebtedness. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to realize. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net federal, foreign and state deferred tax assets of $486 million. Although management believes that it is more likely than not that future operating results and tax planning strategies generating sufficient future taxable income can be utilized to realize the net deferred tax assets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate such results or implement these strategies. Our international operations expose us to uncertainties and risks from abroad, which could negatively affect our results of operations. USSK, located in the Slovak Republic, and USSB, located in Serbia, constitute nearly 28% of our total raw steel production capability, and accounted for 24% of net sales for 2005. Both USSK and USSB are subject to economic conditions and political factors in Europe, which if changed could negatively affect their results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSK and USSB are also subject to foreign currency exchange risks. Any future international acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Natural gas supplies to USSB may be curtailed and such curtailments would have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. USSB is dependent upon availability of natural gas in Serbia, which is dependent upon a single pipeline. Serbia has experienced major curtailments during periods of peak demand in Eastern Europe. Such curtailments have forced USSB to interrupt steel production and finishing operations in the past and this could recur in the future. The carbon dioxide emission limits established by the European Commission may limit the amount of steel that can be produced at USSK and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. The European Commission (EC) has established carbon dioxide (CO2) emission limits for EU member countries. Under this program the Slovak Ministry of the Environment has reduced the amount of CO2 that USSK may emit. USSK may be required to reduce its production or purchase emission credits, either of which may have a negative impact on income and cash flow. Our business requires substantial debt service, contingent obligations, capital investment, operating lease, capital commitments and maintenance expenditures that we may be unable to fulfill. With approximately $1.6 billion of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2005, we have substantial debt service requirements. Interest and other financial costs, excluding foreign currency losses, interest income, capitalized 25 Table of Contents interest and the adjustment from the Gary property tax settlement, totaled $124 million in 2005 and are expected to be about the same in 2006; however, interest and other financial costs will change with changes to our capital structure. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2005, total capital expenditures were $2.2 billion. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program over a period commencing with the acquisition date and ending on December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2005, the remaining commitment under this program was $53 million. At December 31, 2005, our domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $82 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $376 million under operating leases. In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, raw steel and steel finishing production facilities, including periodic relines or rebuilds of our seventeen blast furnaces. As of December 31, 2005, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $133 million, guarantees of approximately $10 million of indebtedness for unconsolidated entities and contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements of approximately $3.9 billion, plus contingencies under the sale of our mining assets of approximately $79 million. As the general partner of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P., we are obligated to fund cash shortfalls incurred by that partnership but may withdraw as the general partner if we are required to fund in excess of $150 million in operating cash shortfalls. As of December 31, 2005, we were also contingently liable for $2 million of debt and other obligations of Marathon. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. U. S. Steels insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insurance retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. The collective bargaining agreement with the USWA contains provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USWA, grants the USWA a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the collective bargaining agreement and requires us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities. That agreement also restricts our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further requires that the ratio of non USWA employees to USWA employees at our domestic facilities not exceed 1 to 5. Strikes, work stoppages and customer concern about the possibility of strikes, particularly upon the expiration of our major domestic collective bargaining agreement, could adversely impact our relationships with our customers which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, mini mill producers and certain foreign competitors and producers of comparable products do not have unionized work forces. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USWA, foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. U. S. Steel is involved in multiemployer plans covering pensions and other postretirement benefit costs. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of these plans, which will have a negative effect on our cash flows. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of these plans. 26 Table of Contents U. S. Steel is subject to work stoppages as a result of periodic labor negotiations at facilities in Europe. Most employees at USSK and USSB are represented by unions pursuant to agreements that expire in December 2007 and November 2006, respectively, both of which are subject to annual wage rate negotiations. Any strike or work stoppage upon expiration of the current agreements or as a result of the inability to agree on annual wage rates could have significant negative effects on results of operations. Customer payment defaults could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries and could experience financial difficulties in times of economic downturn. In some cases, these difficulties may result in bankruptcy filings or cessation of operations. If customers experiencing financial problems default on paying amounts owed to us, we may not be able to collect these amounts or recognize expected revenue. Any material payment defaults by our customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with acquisitions. The success of recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions will depend substantially on our ability to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Recent acquisitions in the steel industry have involved prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our recent acquisitions. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy ProcessingCompany(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(b) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003 and our joint ventures, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 28 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007. In 2005, U. S. Steel made an irrevocable decision to purchase the electrolytic galvanizing facility at lease expiration. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works cogeneration facility in the second quarter of 2006. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 150 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 29 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. In 2005, approximately 42 percent of the cases filed against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed (jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000). Approximately 33 percent did not specify any damages at all, approximately 25 percent alleged damages of $1 million and less than half of one percent alleged damages exceeding $10 million. Historically, over 90 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. During 2005, U. S. Steel paid approximately $11 million in settlements. These settlements, along with review of case docket information for certain states and voluntary and involuntary dismissals, resulted in the disposition of approximately 3,800 claims. New case filings added approximately 1,200 claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse 30 Table of Contents effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 14 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2005, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 17 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 7 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 8 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $6.8 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named 31 Table of Contents Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/Feasibility Study (FS). The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project is not presently determinable. U. S. Steels share of the costs for this project will depend upon EPAs selection of an alternative from the range of alternatives presented in the FS and the number of PRPs available to allocate the costs. U. S. Steel anticipates that more PRPs may be added to the group by EPA before the costs of remediation are allocated. U. S. Steel has an accrual of $1.0 million for this site. In addition, there are 12 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 43 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 5 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 16 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 9 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $10 million at one site, in excess of $15 million at two sites and in excess of $25 million at one site. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. As of December 31, 2005, project costs have amounted to $52.5 million. U. S. Steel anticipates doing additional dredging at a cost of $8.4 million. U. S. Steel is presently in discussions with the dredging contractor and intends to meet with EPA in an effort to reduce the anticipated cost of this work. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $1.3 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property with total costs estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel paid its entire share of the assessment costs and $4.5 million of its share of the restoration costs to the public trustees in 2005. A balance of $16 million in restoration costs remains to be paid by U. S. Steel to complete its settlement obligations. 32 Table of Contents On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA and reports of field investigation findings have been submitted to EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans have been submitted to EPA for approval. Three self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $21.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations for the submitted work plans is estimated to be $2.8 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to 2002. On December 27, 2005, IDEM issued a NOV which includes alleged violations at the No. 8 Blast Furnace and the Coke Batteries for the period of 2002 through 2005. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a solid waste management unit (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After its acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel intends to submit a remediation alternative to IDEM recommending an in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.1 million. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $452,000. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects (SEPs) at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved and field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel submitted a Phase I RFI Report to ADEM in February 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $102,000. In addition, U. S. Steel has developed a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $418,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $338,000. 33 Table of Contents Lorain Tubular Operations In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe) with steelmaking, bar producing and tubular operations in Lorain, Ohio, was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Tubular Operations. U. S. Steel and EPA entered into a consent decree that resolved all issues related to U. S. Steels operations. The Consent Decree was filed with the U. S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio Eastern Division (United States of America and State of Ohio v. United States Steel Corporation), where it was entered November 29, 2005. In December 2005, U. S. Steel paid cash penalties totaling $100,025. Also in December 2005, U. S. Steel conducted a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. In addition, U. S. Steel has agreed to perform a SEP to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Issues related to the company that retained the steelmaking and bar producing facilities were resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works Effective February 14, 2005, U. S. Steel entered into a consent order with Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) related to Great Lakes Works that included the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace, which has been completed; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the steel producing facilities; a civil penalty of $950,000, which has been paid; and a SEP at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Various construction projects are underway at the steel producing facilities to improve emission capture and control. These projects are proceeding in compliance with the consent order schedule. Construction for the riverbank restoration SEP was completed in September 2005. On January 6, 2006, Great Lakes Works received a proposed administrative consent order (Order) from the MDEQ that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the facility. The Order identifies certain corrective actions desired by MDEQ to address the alleged violations and anticipates an undisclosed penalty amount. Great Lakes Works had previously initiated work on some of these actions and completed others. Costs to complete the remaining corrective actions requested by MDEQ are presently not determinable. One of the corrective actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has undertaken a project to remove historic basin sediments from these areas. $800,000 has been spent on the project as of December 31, 2005. Costs to complete the river basin project are estimated to be $1.2 million. Great Lakes Works intends to negotiate a settlement of this matter with MDEQ in 2006. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $13.0 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through June 30, 2005. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $385,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. Granite City Granite City Works received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004 for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occur when coke is pushed out of the ovens for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). The IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. The case is anticipated to be resolved by entering into a Consent Order in early 2006, which will include a revised pushing compliance plan and a penalty. IEPA has proposed a civil penalty of $175,000. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. 34 Table of Contents Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by Utah Department of Environmental Quality. In December 2005, a third party purchased the Geneva site and assumed Geneva Steel Companys rights and obligations under the asset sales agreement and the permit pursuant to a bankruptcy court order. U. S. Steel has reviewed environmental data concerning the site gathered by itself and third parties, has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations and has begun remediation on some areas of the site for which U. S. Steel has responsibility. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of remediation and post closure care of three hazardous waste impoundments to be $29.4 million. Other In February 2005, U. S. Steels lease for a third party to mine slag at the Gascola slag disposal site in Penn Hills, Pennsylvania was terminated. Current mining regulations require closure of the site. The cost to close the slag disposal site is estimated to be $2.8 million. This work will include contour of the highwalls and vegetative cover for the entire site. In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The Order allocated responsibility for remediation costs among U. S. Steel and two other parties. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $788,000, based on the agreed allocation factor of 26 percent. U. S. Steel is preparing a Remedial Action Plan (RAP) for the site for submittal to the North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural Resources (NCDENR) that will propose limited soil removal and monitored natural attenuation for groundwater beneath the site. The RAP is due to the NCDENR in April 2006. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its 50 percent share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.8 million. In 2005, KDHE and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service asserted a claim against U. S. Steel and SSB for natural resource damages at the site and nearby creek. The parties have agreed to settlement of this claim for a cash payment and U. S. Steels share is $247,875. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2006, are as follows: John J. Connelly 59 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 57 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer Gretchen R. Haggerty 50 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer David H. Lohr 52 Senior Vice PresidentEuropean Operations & President U. S. Steel Kosice Dan D. Sandman 57 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 56 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 58 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 51 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 35 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 57. As of January 31, 2006, there were 27,427 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment, and increased to $.10 per share effective with the June 2005 payment. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average closing price for U. S. Steels common stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of common shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2005, no unregistered shares were issued. 36 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table contains information about purchases by U. S. Steel of its equity securities during the period covered by this report. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased Average Price Paid per Share Total NumberOf SharesPurchased asPart ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans orPrograms Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under thePlans or Programs January 1 31, 2005 February 1 28, 2005 March 1 31, 2005 Quarter ended March 31, 2005 April 1 30, 2005 May 1 31, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 June 1 30, 2005 Quarter ended June 30, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 July 1 31, 2005 August 1 31, 2005 910,000 $ 42.04 910,000 7,090,000 September 1 30, 2005 300,000 $ 44.27 300,000 6,790,000 Quarter ended September 30, 2005 1,210,000 $ 42.59 1,210,000 6,790,000 October 1 31, 2005 200,000 $ 36.30 200,000 6,590,000 November 1 30, 2005 2,410,000 $ 40.15 2,410,000 4,180,000 December 1 31, 2005 2,000,000 $ 48.90 2,000,000 2,180,000 Quarter ended December 31, 2005 4,610,000 $ 43.78 4,610,000 2,180,000 With the exception of the shares repurchased in May 2005, the above shares were purchased pursuant to the U. S. Steel Common Stock Repurchase Program, which was announced on July 26, 2005 and allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. The above purchases were all made in the open market. On January 31, 2006, U. S. Steel announced the replacement of this repurchase program with a new program having the authority to purchase up to eight million shares of its common stock. It is expected that the purchases will be made from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions. The timing of such purchases will be determined by the company based upon a number of factors including the market price of United States Steel Corporation common stock; the availability and pursuit of strategic initiatives including investment and acquisition opportunities; operating cash flow and internal capital requirements; and general economic conditions in the United States and Europe. Of the shares repurchased in May 2005, 48,638 were purchased pursuant to the exercise by Non Officer Restricted Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan, and the remainder were purchased pursuant to the exercise by 2002 Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan. 37 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) Adjusted(a) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001(b) Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(c) $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 $ 6,949 $ 6,286 Income (loss) from operations(d) 1,439 1,625 (719 ) 123 (404 ) Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(d) 910 1,121 (363 ) 81 (211 ) Net income (loss)(d) $ 910 $ 1,135 $ (420 ) $ 81 $ (211 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) basic $ 7.87 $ 9.87 $ (3.67 ) $ 0.83 $ (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.72 (3.67 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Net income (loss)(e) basic 7.87 10.00 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.83 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Dividends paid(f) 0.38 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.55 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 9,822 $ 11,064 $ 7,897 $ 7,991 $ 8,332 Capitalization: Debt(g) $ 1,612 $ 1,371 $ 1,933 $ 1,434 $ 1,466 Stockholders equity 3,324 4,074 1,151 2,042 2,501 Total capitalization $ 4,936 $ 5,445 $ 3,084 $ 3,476 $ 3,967 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements and the Five Year Financial Summary. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation. On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The income statement for the year ended December 31, 2001 represents a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the sale of the mining assets, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. The increase in net sales from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of a $104 million impairment of receivables that was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected restructuring charges, higher pension and OPEB costs and increased compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. (e) See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (f) For year 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (g) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2002 to 2003 was mainly due to the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May 2003. 38 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the seventh largest steel producer in the world and the second largest integrated steel producer in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to implement our strategy to continue to increase our value added product mix; to expand our global business platform; to improve our capital structure and strengthen our balance sheet; to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets. In Europe, U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing European markets, and to invest in value added facilities, including an automotive hot dip galvanizing line that is currently under construction. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the sustainability of higher steel prices; the cost of purchased raw materials and energy; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has resulted in volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States in 2005 were lower than 2004 levels. Import levels may increase in 2006 depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, consumption in the United States versus other regions and foreign production levels. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on 39 Table of Contents historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2006. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting these rates, we utilize several Merrill Lynch Average AAA/AA Corporate Bond indexes and both the 30 year and the 10 year U. S. Treasury bond rates as a preliminary indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 5.75 percent to 5.50 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2006 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most non union benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2006. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $159 million in 2006. Total OPEB costs in 2006 are expected to be approximately $111 million. 40 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 1/2 percent change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and OPEB calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) (1/2%) 1/2% Expected return on plan assets Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension costs for 2006 $ 34 $ (34 ) Discount rate Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension & OPEB costs for 2006 $ 16 $ (17 ) Pension & OPEB liabilities at December 31, 2005 $ 430 $ (470 ) Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected OPEB costs for 2006 $ (8 ) $ 9 Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of its net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends, without regard to the one time repatriation in 2005, to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2005, net of the $300 million repatriation, amounted to approximately $1,276 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $400 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of 41 Table of Contents remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2005, total accruals for environmental remediation were $145 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. Change in Accounting Method During the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel changed its method of determining the cost of USSK inventories from the last in, first out (LIFO) method to the first in, first out (FIFO) method. Management considers the FIFO method to be preferable to the LIFO method for USSK because it creates consistency of the valuation method used for inventories within the USSE reportable segment and provides for comparability of the USSE segment with major international competitors. In accordance with FAS No. 154, prior period results have been adjusted to apply the new method retrospectively. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Segments During 2005, U. S. Steel had three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve domestic customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), container, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil Company LLC and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G Coatings Company L.P., which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with the former owner of USSB. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the USSB acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service center, appliance, container, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services and the management and development of real estate. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota and Delray Connecting Railroad Company, which were acquired from National. Prior to the sale on June 30, 2003 of U. S. Steels coal mines and related assets, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer values of steel rounds and bands supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs and may be adjusted quarterly if actual production costs warrant. For further information, see Note 6 to the Financial Statements. 42 Table of Contents Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales of U. S. Steel by segment for each of the last three years: (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2005 2004 2003(a) Flat rolled(b)(c) $ 8,813 $ 9,827 $ 6,401 USSE 3,336 2,839 1,817 Tubular 1,546 941 573 Straightline(c) 138 Total sales from reportable segments 13,695 13,607 8,929 Other Businesses(d) 344 368 399 Net sales $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Includes net sales from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. (d) Includes net sales from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business, and from the sale of coal prior to June 30, 2003, when U. S. Steel sold its coal mining business. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2005 versus Year Ended December 31, 2004 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 14 % 6 % 0 % 0 % 2 % 10 % USSE 2 % 14 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 6 % 52 % 5 % 0 % 1 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects 43 Table of Contents Total net sales in 2005 increased by $64 million compared to 2004. Sales for the Flat rolled segment were down 10 percent as the increases in Flat rolled average steel prices (up $43 per ton) were more than offset by lower sheet shipment volumes and lower trade shipments of coke. Sales for USSE increased by 18 percent mainly as a result of higher average steel prices (up $81 per ton). Tubular sales were up significantly due primarily to higher average prices (up $463 per ton), as well as increased shipment volumes and an improved product mix. Year Ended December 31, 2004 versus Year Ended December 31, 2003 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 12 % 34 % 4 % 0 % 4 % 54 % USSE 2 % 28 % 11 % 7 % 8 % 56 % Tubular 23 % 42 % 2 % 0 % 3 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects Total net sales in 2004 increased $4,647 million compared to 2003. Sales for the Flat rolled segment increased 54 percent mainly as a result of higher average realized prices (up $152 per ton), higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products; and higher sales on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill. Sales for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. USSE sales were up 56 percent mainly due to higher average realized prices (up $171 per ton), favorable changes in product mix and favorable foreign currency exchange rate effects. Sales for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. The 64 percent increase for Tubular was primarily due to higher average realized prices (up $233 per ton) and shipment volumes. Operating expenses Profit based union payments Results for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 included costs related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. All of these costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 % Change Allocated to segment results $ 115 $ 131 12 % Retiree benefit expenses 100 110 9 % Total $ 215 $ 241 11 % Payment amounts per the agreement with the USWA are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) to be contributed to the National Benefit Trust, the purpose of which (when established) is to assist National retirees with healthcare costs, based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item were calculated and recorded through the income statement in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. 44 Table of Contents Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $280 million in 2005, compared to $254 million in 2004 and $556 million in 2003. The costs in 2005, 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $23 million, $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The increase from 2004 to 2005 mainly reflected a lower asset base, which resulted in a higher amortization of net actuarial losses and a lower return on plan assets. Excluding the settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $109 million in 2005, $106 million in 2004 and $241 million in 2003. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $19 million in 2005, $18 million in 2004 and $15 million in 2003. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $698 million in 2005, compared to $739 million in 2004. The decline primarly reflected lower expenses for stock based and executive compensation, partially offset by higher pension costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower stock based compensation and lower OPEB costs. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for further details. 45 Table of Contents Income (loss) from operations:(a) Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(b) (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 Flat rolled(c) $ 602 $ 1,185 $ (54 ) USSE 502 439 214 Tubular 528 197 (25 ) Straightline(c) (70 ) Total income from reportable segments 1,632 1,821 65 Other Businesses 43 58 15 Segment income from operations $ 1,675 $ 1,879 $ 80 Retiree benefit expenses (267 ) (257 ) (107 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain 70 Stock appreciation rights 1 (23 ) (75 ) Workforce reduction charges (20 ) (17 ) (621 ) Environmental remediation at previously sold facility (20 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Asset impairments (57 ) Litigation items (25 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,439 $ 1,625 $ (719 ) (a) See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. (b) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. 46 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled segment income in 2005 declined by $583 million compared to 2004. The decrease primarily resulted from lower steel and commercial coke shipment volumes and higher costs for raw materials, outages, energy and labor. These were partially offset by increased prices for flat rolled products and higher transfer values for steel rounds supplied to Tubular. During 2005, the cost to produce tube rounds has increased dramatically and the transfer price for tube rounds supplied to Tubular, which had been established at the beginning of 2005 based on projected costs, was increased by $53 per ton effective April 1, 2005, by an additional $20 per ton effective July 1, 2005, and by an additional $46 per ton effective October 1, 2005. Capability utilization in 2005 was adversely affected by the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace as well as lower demand levels early in the year as a result of high service center and end customer inventory levels. Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. 47 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income of $502 million for 2005 increased by $63 million from 2004 due mainly to higher prices, partially offset by increased raw material and outage costs. USSE segment income for 2004 was $439 million, compared to income of $214 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. Capability utilization declined in 2003 and 2004 primarily due to the inclusion of USSB as one of its two blast furnaces was not operational until the third quarter of 2005. Capability utilization was also adversely affected in 2005 by the rebuild of our largest European blast furnace in Slovakia and in 2004 by operational difficulties with a blast furnace early in the year. 48 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular Tubular segment income of $528 million in 2005 reflected an improvement of $331 million compared to 2004. The increase resulted mainly from higher prices, partially offset by higher costs for steel rounds as discussed in Segment results for Flat rolled. Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of steel rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which were transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. Results for Other Businesses The decline in income from Other Businesses from $58 million in 2004 to $43 million in 2005 was mainly due to lower results at iron ore pellet operations due to lower trade sales and increased costs for natural gas, partially offset by higher intersegment sales and by improved results for real estate activities and transportation services. Other Businesses recorded income of $58 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services, partially offset by lower results for real estate activities. Items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain of $70 million in 2005 resulted from a personal property tax settlement with the city of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana (Gary property tax settlement) and reflected the reversal of accruals in excess of the settlement amount of $44 million. 49 Table of Contents Stock appreciation rights resulted in a credit to compensation expense of $1 million in 2005 and charges of $23 million and $75 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued from 1995 through 2003 and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. Workforce reduction charges of $20 million in 2005 reflected special termination benefits for a voluntary early retirement program offered to certain employees at USSK. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain coal seam gas interests and from the sale in June 2003 of our coal mines and related assets. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and recognition of certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Net interest and other financial costs Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(a) (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Net interest and other financial costs $ 72 $ 156 $ 167 Foreign currency losses (gains) 80 (36 ) (54 ) Adjustment from Gary property tax settlement (25 ) Adjustment related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes (38 ) (17 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 33 Total net interest and other financial costs $ 127 $ 115 $ 96 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Net interest and other financial costs in 2005 included a favorable adjustment of $25 million related to the Gary property tax settlement. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 also included a $33 million charge resulting from the early extinguishment of certain senior debt. Excluding these items, the $32 million increase in 2005 primarily reflected an unfavorable change in foreign currency effects. This was partially offset by lower debt levels resulting from the retirement of USSK long term debt in November 2004 and the redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004, higher interest income and lower interest on tax related liabilities. Excluding the previously identified items, the small increase in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected a smaller foreign currency gain, partially offset by higher interest income and 50 Table of Contents lower interest on tax related liabilities. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which was the functional currency of both prior to January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of our operations outside the United States was the U.S. dollar through December 31, 2005. As of January 1, 2006, the functional currency for USSK and USSB was changed from the U.S. dollar to the euro primarily because of significant changes in economic facts and circumstances as a result of Slovakias entry into the European Union and the subsequent entry of the Slovak koruna into the Exchange Rate Mechanizm II in preparation for Slovakias adoption of the euro. Other factors that contributed to this change are the evolution of USSE into an autonomous business segment, the settlement of its U.S. dollar denominated debt and the establishment of euro based debt facilities. This change in functional currency will be applied on a prospective basis. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2005 was $365 million, compared to $356 million in 2004 and a benefit of $452 million in 2003. The provision in 2005 included a charge of $37 million resulting from the $95 million pre tax gain from the Gary property tax settlement and a $16 million charge resulting from the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. During 2005, a current tax provision was booked for USSK because the provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 50 percent of its tax liability for years 2005 through 2009, compared to a 100 percent credit in previous years. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefit in 2003 included a favorable effect relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million. The tax provisions in all three years were primarily the result of pre tax results from domestic operations. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets of $472 million. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2005, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $14 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $81 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the cumulative losses experienced since the acquisition of USSB. If USSB generates sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $58 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2005 was $910 million, compared with $1,135 million in 2004 and with a net loss of $420 million in 2003. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2005 increased $480 million from year end 2004 primarily due to increased cash balances (see Cash Flows) and higher inventories, partially offset by a reduction in outstanding accounts receivable. The increase in inventories was mainly due to higher quantities of raw materials. The decrease in accounts receivables primarily resulted from lower sales in the fourth quarter of 2005, compared to the fourth quarter of 2004, due mainly to lower prices and shipment volumes for flat rolled products. 51 Table of Contents FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability was required for this plan. Consequently, entries were recorded that eliminated prepaid pensions, increased the intangible pension asset by $250 million and resulted in a net charge to equity of $1.37 billion, which increased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2005 increased $171 million from year end 2004 and long term deferred income tax liabilities were eliminated, primarily due to the establishment of federal and state deferred tax assets in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2005 increased $214 million from year end 2004 mainly due to the increase in short term debt and current maturities of long term debt, which primarily reflects amounts drawn against a one year revolving credit facility at USSK. The facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation of $300 million in foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities of $1,218 million in 2005 and $1,400 million in 2004 was more than adequate to cover investing and financing activities. In 2003, net cash provided from operating activities was $577 million, which was insufficient to cover the acquisitions of National and USSB. The shortfall was covered by the issuance of long term debt and preferred stock. Cash from operating activities was reduced by payments related to employee benefits as shown in the table below. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Employee Benefit Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ (130 ) $ (295 ) $ (16 ) OPEB payments not funded by trusts (213 ) (186 ) (60 ) Contributions to VEBA(a) (60 ) (30 ) Contributions to other OPEB trusts (22 ) (4 ) (19 ) Payments to multiemployer pension plans(b) (28 ) (50 )(c) Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts (24 ) (44 ) (15 ) Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ (477 ) $ (609 ) $ (110 ) (a) All were voluntary except for $10 million in 2005. (b) Primarily the Steelworkers Pension Trust. (c) Includes $11 million related to 2003 hours worked. 52 Table of Contents Capital expenditures were $741 million in 2005, $579 million in 2004 and $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $492 million in 2005 included spending for the major rebuild of the largest U. S. Steel blast furnace at Gary Works, for environmental projects at our iron ore operations and for coke oven thru wall repairs. European expenditures of $249 million included spending at USSK for air emission reduction projects for cokemaking and steelmaking facilities, for a new automotive galvanizing line, for construction of an air separation plant and for blast furnace upgrades; and spending at USSB for the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Domestic expenditures in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Tubular Operations and other smaller projects, the most significant of which were at Gary Works, Mon Valley Works and Minntac. European expenditures in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. 53 Table of Contents U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2005, totaled $82 million. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2005, was $53 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $156 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2005, leaving a balance of $1 million under this commitment. Capital expenditures for 2006 are expected to be approximately $700 million, reflecting approximately $440 million for domestic operations and $260 million for European operations. Domestic projects include the completion of the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace at Gary Works, acquisition of mobile, mining and other production equipment, and coke oven thru wall replacements at Clairton Works. We are also evaluating alternatives to add cokemaking capacity and to enhance energy recovery efficiency. Projects in Slovakia include continued spending for a new automotive galvanizing line, and continuing work on air emission reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include preparatory work for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace in 2007. The preceding statement concerning expected 2006 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2005 reflected amounts drawn against a USSK credit agreement that was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Common stock repurchased reflected cash utilized to repurchase 5.8 million shares of U. S. Steel common stock during 2005 in the open market. A U. S. Steel common stock repurchase program, which was announced during the third quarter of 2005, allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. On January 31, 2006, the Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004, which were used for the early redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004. This redemption is included in repayment of long term debt, which also reflects the retirement of long term USSK debt in November 2004. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock Series B Preferred Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2005 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.08 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2004 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2003 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 1.206 $ Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average market price for U. S. Steels common 54 Table of Contents stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Liquidity U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement to sell a revolving interest in eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries through a commercial paper conduit program with funding under the facility up to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. The Receivables Purchase Agreement expires on November 28, 2006. Qualifying accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. While the Receivables Purchase Agreement expires in November 2006, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed in the following paragraph and other debt obligations, any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 22, 2006. As of December 31, 2005, $500 million was available to be sold under this facility. U. S. Steel has a revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by a lien on our domestic inventory and receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement (Inventory Facility). The Inventory Facility contains restrictive covenants, many of which apply only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million, including a fixed charge coverage ratio test. In addition, a $100 million availability block may apply beginning May 1, 2008 until the 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes) are repaid, refinanced or defeased. Interest on borrowings is calculated based on either LIBOR or the agents prime rate using spreads based on facility availability as defined in the agreement. Although there were no amounts drawn against this facility at December 31, 2005, availability was $594 million due to $6 million of letters of credit issued against the facility. This facility expires in October 2009. At December 31, 2005, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. USSB was the sole obligor on a EUR 9.3 million committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility expired on September 27, 2005. On September 28, 2005, USSB entered into a new EUR 25 million facility (which approximated $30 million at December 31, 2005), which is secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods and expires September 28, 2008. At December 31, 2005, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. USSK is the sole obligor on a EUR 195 million revolving credit facility (which approximated $231 million at December 31, 2005) that expires in December 2006. The facility bears interest at EURIBOR plus 20 basis points. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on undrawn amounts. At December 31, 2005, this facility was fully drawn. This facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes, and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). 55 Table of Contents On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.5 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $114 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4 million during 2005, and does not expect any material changes in 2006. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2005, in the amount of $2 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as $556 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases and $41 million relating to certain operating leases, may be declared immediately due and payable. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2005: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents(a) $ 1,452 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 56 Amounts available under USSB credit facility 30 Total estimated liquidity(b) $ 2,632 (a) Excludes $27 million of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. (b) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U.S.Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (a) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U. S. Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (b) Excludes $27 million and $16 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity has increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. 57 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2005, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2006 2007through2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,613 $ 249 $ 394 $ 413 $ 557 Operating leases(b) 376 106 121 52 97 Capital commitments(c) 135 49 33 53 Environmental commitments(c) 145 26 119 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e) 29 51 (e) Other postretirement benefits (f) 225 530 500 (f) Total contractual obligations $ 2,269 (g) $ 684 $ 1,129 $ 965 $ 826 (g) (a) See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2006 through 2010 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2005, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $130 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $24 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in 2006. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $13 million to pension plans not funded by trusts in 2006. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension 58 Table of Contents plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust to be established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2005, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2006 2007through 2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 83 $ 75 $ $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 16 4 12 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 34 34 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 10 8 1 1 Contingent liabilities: Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 3,886 2,507 1,078 195 106 Total commercial commitments $ 4,179 $ 2,594 $ 1,079 $ 195 $ 311 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 19 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works co generation facility in the second quarter of 2006; therefore, the agreement for the supply of electric power (previously expiring in 2011) will be terminated. U. S. Steel has an off balance sheet arrangement for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. This operating lease arrangement is with a special purpose trust (Trust). The Trust financed the construction of the facility and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficiaries of the Trust. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of this entity and there is no assurance that U. S. Steel will purchase the facility at lease expiration. U. S. Steels transactions with the Trust are limited to the operating lease agreement, and the associated lease expense is included in cost of sales on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate this Trust because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. 59 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement resulted in an increase of approximately $45 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance in order to meet environmental standards as established from time to time by Slovak law. One current compliance project is a dedusting system 60 Table of Contents for Steel Shop No. 2 to meet air emission standards for particulates. These standards are applicable January 1, 2007 and USSK is attempting to complete the project by this deadline; however, project completion is currently anticipated for the first quarter 2007. Failure to meet the applicable deadline could result in the imposition of corrective measures by the Slovak Ministry of Environment (Ministry). While the United States has not ratified the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC), in order to provide EU member states a mechanism for fulfilling their Kyoto commitments, has established its own CO2 limits for every EU member state. In 2004, the EC approved a national allocation plan for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias originally proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent, and following that decision the Ministry imposed an 8 percent reduction to the amount of CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. Subsequently, USSK filed legal actions agains the EC and the Ministry challenging these reductions. In addition, USSK is evaluating a number of alternatives ranging from purchasing CO2 allowances to reducing steel production, and it is not currently possible to predict the impact of these decisions on USSK. However, the actual shortfall of allowances for the initial allocation period (2005 through 2007) will depend upon a number of internal and external variables and the effect of that shortfall on USSK cannot be predicted at this time. Based on the fair value of the anticipated shortfall of allowances related to production in 2005, a long term other liability of $4 million has been charged to income and recorded on the balance sheet. Domestically, while ratification of the Kyoto Protocol does not seem likely in the near term, there remains the possibility that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may impose limitations on greenhouse gases. The impact on U. S. Steels domestic operations cannot be estimated. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Domestic: Capital $ 66 $ 24 $ 8 Compliance Operating & maintenance 305 241 206 Remediation(b) 23 18 38 Total Domestic $ 394 $ 283 $ 252 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 97 $ 22 Compliance Operating & maintenance 12 8 10 Remediation(b) 3 3 3 Total USSE $ 82 $ 108 $ 35 Total U. S. Steel $ 476 $ 391 $ 287 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 18 percent of total capital expenditures in 2005, 21 percent in 2004 and 10 percent in 2003. Compliance expenditures represented 3 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2005, 2 percent in 2004 and 3 percent in 2003. Remediation spending during 2003 to 2005 was mainly related to remediation 61 Table of Contents activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2005, U. S. Steel accrued $49 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2005, was $145 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2006. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $113 million in 2006, $61 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2006 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $76 million in 2007, including $60 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. The Senate Judiciary Committee has recommended to the Senate legislation that, if enacted, would create an asbestos trust fund that would provide benefits to asbestos claimants funded by payments over 30 years of 62 Table of Contents $136 billion from companies and their insurers that have been involved in asbestos litigation, including U. S. Steel along with thousands of others. The legislation would provide an administrative system to process asbestos claims instead of resolution through judicial proceedings. The amount that a company would be required to pay under the current version of the legislation would depend upon its placement among several tiers and sub tiers, based upon corporate revenue and prior expenditures related to asbestos defense costs, settlements and judgments. Management estimates that if the legislation were adopted in the form proposed by the Judiciary Committee, the annual cost to U. S. Steel would be somewhat greater than the historical cost of asbestos defense and settlement. It is unclear whether any legislation will be adopted and any final legislation may be substantially different than the version recommended by the Judiciary Committee. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional detail concerning asbestos litigation, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. Outlook for 2006 The first quarter of 2006 looks positive for our domestic and European markets. Service center and end customer inventories are balanced and we expect continued strength in the energy markets served by our Tubular segment. For Flat rolled, first quarter 2006 shipments are expected to improve compared to the fourth quarter of 2005 due to the restart of the Gary No. 14 blast furnace, with prices at or above the fourth quarter level. We expect higher raw material costs to be largely offset by reduced energy and outage costs. For U. S. Steel Europe, first quarter shipments are expected to increase and average realized prices and costs should be consistent with fourth quarter levels. However, first quarter results will be negatively affected by production curtailments at Serbian operations as a result of natural gas supply disruptions and could also be negatively affected by potential job related actions by a labor union at USSB that is dissatisfied with the 2006 wage agreement, which became effective upon approval of the other unions. Shipments and average realized prices for the Tubular segment in the first quarter of 2006 are expected to be in line with the fourth quarter. First quarter 2006 results for Other Businesses should decline from the fourth quarter due primarily to normal seasonal variations at our iron ore operations in Minnesota. Total costs for pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately $300 million in 2006, compared to $390 million in 2005. Accounting Standards In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123R. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value 63 Table of Contents of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved a new rule that delayed the effective date of FAS 123R. Except for this deferral of the effective date, the guidance in FAS 123R is unchanged. Under the SECs rule, FAS 123R is now effective for U. S. Steel for annual rather than interim periods that begin after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply this Statement to all awards granted on or after January 1, 2006 and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after January 1, 2006 for the portion of outstanding awards for which requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for proforma disclosures. Currently, U. S. Steel expects that the effect of adopting this Statement on 2006 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $10 million. In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. This Interpretation clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists. U. S. Steel adopted the provisions of this Interpretation in the second quarter of 2005. There were no financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Interpretation. In May 2005, the FASB issued FAS 154, which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. FAS 154 eliminates the requirement to include the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle in the income statement and instead requires that changes in accounting principle be retroactively applied. FAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and correction of errors made on or after January 1, 2006, with early adoption permitted. U. S. Steel began applying the provisions of this statement in the fourth quarter of 2005. In February 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. This Statement resolves issues addressed in Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. D1, Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets, and is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect any financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Statement. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its market risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in income from operations. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain transactions, primarily related to forecasted natural gas purchases. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the natural gas purchase is settled. Once the purchase is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. 64 Table of Contents Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. U. S. Steel had no open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2005. Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in closing commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004 are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Assuming a Hypothetical PriceDecrease of: 2005 2004 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Incremental Decrease in Income Before Taxes: Zinc $ 2.9 $ 7.2 Natural Gas $ 1.8 $ 4.4 Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2005, may cause future pretax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $7 million in 2005, compared to gains of $4 million in 2004 and $1 million in 2003. These gains were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For carrying amount and fair value of derivative commodity instruments, see Note 26 to the Financial Statements. 65 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2005 and 2004 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 18 $ $ 7 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 1,568 $ 36 $ 1,419 $ 50 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2005, and 2004, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. (d) For additional information, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $36 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $23.1 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $61.6 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2005 euro forward rates would result in a $8.5 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 66 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Air The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a federally mandated operating permit program and civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. The principal impact of the CAA on U. S. Steel is on the cokemaking and primary steelmaking operations, as described in this section. The CAA requires the regulation of hazardous air pollutants and development and promulgation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) Standards. It was determined in 1995 that the Chrome Electroplating MACT did not apply to steel mill sources; however, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) stated that MACT standards applicable to these sources would be forthcoming. To date, there has been no action taken. U. S. Steel facilities that potentially would be affected are the electrolytic tinning lines at Gary Works and the tin free steel lines at East Chicago Tin and the Midwest Plant. The EPA MACT standards for integrated iron and steel plants require compliance by May 22, 2006. The taconite iron ore processing MACT requires compliance by October 30, 2006. U. S. Steel anticipates that additional emissions control equipment will be needed to comply with the taconite iron ore processing MACT at Minntac. Keetac has installed an air scrubber for that purpose. Costs associated with compliance with these MACT standards are included in the capital expenditures disclosed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. The CAA specifically addressed the regulation and control of coke oven batteries. U. S. Steel has elected to comply with the Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) standards and believes it will be able to meet the current LAER standards. The LAER standards are expected to be further revised in 2010 and additional health risk based standards are expected to be adopted in 2020. The Phase II Coke MACT for pushing, quenching and battery stacks requires compliance by April 14, 2006. The EPA is developing regulations to address Regional Haze, the impact of which could be significant to U. S. Steel, but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated until the final regulations are promulgated and, more importantly, the states implement their State Implementation Plans covering their standards. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains the necessary discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts its operations to be in compliance with such permits. For 20 Table of Contents additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 21,000 domestically and approximately 25,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in December 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Most employees at USSB are represented by three unions and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. On February 10, 2006, USSB and two of the three unions agreed to the hourly base earnings for 2006 and signed an annex to the collective bargaining agreement. As of the date of this filing, the largest labor union at USSB had not agreed to the negotiated 2006 hourly base earnings or signed the annex. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. 21 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income (loss) by reportable segments and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 6 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 60 and F 61. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is cyclical and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows general economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in various smaller geographic areas. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess world supply. This has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness, which have not been offset by commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. Rapidly growing demand and supply in China and other developing economies may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years steel consumption in China and other developing economies such as India has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by developing plans to rapidly increase steel production capability in these countries. Steel production, especially in China, has been expanding rapidly and could be well in excess of Chinese demand depending on continuing demand growth rates. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any significant Chinese capacity excess could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if excess production is exported to other markets. Increases in prices and limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. Steel producers require large amounts of raw materials iron ore or other iron containing material, steel scrap, coke and coal for integrated producers such as U. S. Steel, and scrap for mini mill producers. Both integrated and mini mill producers consume large amounts of energy. Over the last several years, prices for raw materials and energy, in particular natural gas, have increased significantly. In many cases these price increases have been a greater percentage than price increases for the sale of steel products. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in receiving sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner, resulting in production curtailments. These production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins and may continue to do so in the future. 22 Table of Contents Increased imports of steel products into the U.S. could negatively affect domestic steel prices and demand levels and reduce profitability of domestic producers. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 25 percent of the domestic steel market in 2005, 26 percent in 2004 and 19 percent in 2003. Foreign competitors typically have lower labor costs, and are often owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Import levels may also be impacted by decisions of government agencies under U.S. trade laws. Increases in future levels of imported steel could reduce future market prices and demand levels for domestic steel. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Domestic steel producers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the European Union and Japan are generally comparable to domestic standards, other nations have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to unplanned equipment failures. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Availability of supplies could also be affected by logistical disruptions (shortages of barges or rail cars). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. Risk Factors concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Many lawsuits have been filed against U. S. Steel involving asbestos related injuries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and cash flow. U. S. Steel is a defendant in a large number of cases in which approximately 8,400 claimants actively allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. Many of these cases involve multiple claimants (often hundreds or thousands) and defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred). It is possible that we may experience large judgments against us in the future that could have an impact upon the number of future claims filed against us and on the amount of future settlements, which would have an adverse impact on our profitability and cash flow. Our retiree employee health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans covering most of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 114,000 current retirees and beneficiaries are receiving pension and or medical benefits. U. S. Steels underfunded benefit obligations for retiree medical and life insurance were $2.3 billion at year end 2005. Most of these underfunded obligations are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Other postretirement benefit expense is expected to be approximately $111 million in 2006. 23 Table of Contents Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Several domestic competitors provide defined contribution health care plans with contributions increased based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. Our defined benefit pension plan costs are higher than those of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We have noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering many of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. The funded status of these plans declined from an overfunded position of $1.2 billion at year end 2001 to an underfunded position of $606 million at year end 2005. Minimum contributions to these plans is controlled under ERISA and other government regulations and substantial cash contributions may be required. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Pension benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Most domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit pension plans, but may provide defined contribution pension plans with contributions increasing based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our profitability and cash flow. U. S. Steel is currently involved in approximately 60 remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to third parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Numerous domestic competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Domestic competitors that have obtained relief under the Bankruptcy Code may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors applicable to U. S. Steel The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Under the terms of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due 2008 and our 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010 (collectively, the Senior Notes), we are not able to pay dividends on capital stock unless we meet certain restricted payment tests. The terms of our indebtedness and our accounts receivable program contain restrictive provisions that may limit our flexibility. We have Senior Notes outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $726 million as of December 31, 2005. The Senior Notes impose significant restrictions on us such as limits on additional borrowings and certain investments and the use of funds from asset sales. Our $600 million revolving credit agreement secured by inventory prohibits us from selling certain principal properties and imposes additional restrictions if the amount available to be borrowed under that agreement is less than $100 million. Such restrictions include maintaining a fixed charge coverage ratio and limitations on capital expenditures and investments. The Senior Notes, the revolving credit agreement and some of our other loan facilities and leases have provisions that may cause a default under one of these agreements to become a default under the others. These covenants may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 24 Table of Contents Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. Any downgrade in our credit ratings would make raising capital more difficult, would increase the cost of future borrowings and would affect the terms on which we purchase goods and services. In addition, the fees payable under our receivables sales program would increase and the amount of receivables eligible for sale could be reduced. Change in control clauses may require us to immediately purchase or repay debt. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, inventory facility and various other loan documents, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately purchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. We may not have the financial resources to make these purchases and repayments, and a failure to purchase or repay such indebtedness would trigger cross acceleration clauses under the Senior Notes and other indebtedness. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to realize. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net federal, foreign and state deferred tax assets of $486 million. Although management believes that it is more likely than not that future operating results and tax planning strategies generating sufficient future taxable income can be utilized to realize the net deferred tax assets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate such results or implement these strategies. Our international operations expose us to uncertainties and risks from abroad, which could negatively affect our results of operations. USSK, located in the Slovak Republic, and USSB, located in Serbia, constitute nearly 28% of our total raw steel production capability, and accounted for 24% of net sales for 2005. Both USSK and USSB are subject to economic conditions and political factors in Europe, which if changed could negatively affect their results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSK and USSB are also subject to foreign currency exchange risks. Any future international acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Natural gas supplies to USSB may be curtailed and such curtailments would have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. USSB is dependent upon availability of natural gas in Serbia, which is dependent upon a single pipeline. Serbia has experienced major curtailments during periods of peak demand in Eastern Europe. Such curtailments have forced USSB to interrupt steel production and finishing operations in the past and this could recur in the future. The carbon dioxide emission limits established by the European Commission may limit the amount of steel that can be produced at USSK and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. The European Commission (EC) has established carbon dioxide (CO2) emission limits for EU member countries. Under this program the Slovak Ministry of the Environment has reduced the amount of CO2 that USSK may emit. USSK may be required to reduce its production or purchase emission credits, either of which may have a negative impact on income and cash flow. Our business requires substantial debt service, contingent obligations, capital investment, operating lease, capital commitments and maintenance expenditures that we may be unable to fulfill. With approximately $1.6 billion of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2005, we have substantial debt service requirements. Interest and other financial costs, excluding foreign currency losses, interest income, capitalized 25 Table of Contents interest and the adjustment from the Gary property tax settlement, totaled $124 million in 2005 and are expected to be about the same in 2006; however, interest and other financial costs will change with changes to our capital structure. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2005, total capital expenditures were $2.2 billion. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program over a period commencing with the acquisition date and ending on December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2005, the remaining commitment under this program was $53 million. At December 31, 2005, our domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $82 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $376 million under operating leases. In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, raw steel and steel finishing production facilities, including periodic relines or rebuilds of our seventeen blast furnaces. As of December 31, 2005, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $133 million, guarantees of approximately $10 million of indebtedness for unconsolidated entities and contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements of approximately $3.9 billion, plus contingencies under the sale of our mining assets of approximately $79 million. As the general partner of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P., we are obligated to fund cash shortfalls incurred by that partnership but may withdraw as the general partner if we are required to fund in excess of $150 million in operating cash shortfalls. As of December 31, 2005, we were also contingently liable for $2 million of debt and other obligations of Marathon. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. U. S. Steels insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insurance retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. The collective bargaining agreement with the USWA contains provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USWA, grants the USWA a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the collective bargaining agreement and requires us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities. That agreement also restricts our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further requires that the ratio of non USWA employees to USWA employees at our domestic facilities not exceed 1 to 5. Strikes, work stoppages and customer concern about the possibility of strikes, particularly upon the expiration of our major domestic collective bargaining agreement, could adversely impact our relationships with our customers which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, mini mill producers and certain foreign competitors and producers of comparable products do not have unionized work forces. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USWA, foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. U. S. Steel is involved in multiemployer plans covering pensions and other postretirement benefit costs. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of these plans, which will have a negative effect on our cash flows. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of these plans. 26 Table of Contents U. S. Steel is subject to work stoppages as a result of periodic labor negotiations at facilities in Europe. Most employees at USSK and USSB are represented by unions pursuant to agreements that expire in December 2007 and November 2006, respectively, both of which are subject to annual wage rate negotiations. Any strike or work stoppage upon expiration of the current agreements or as a result of the inability to agree on annual wage rates could have significant negative effects on results of operations. Customer payment defaults could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries and could experience financial difficulties in times of economic downturn. In some cases, these difficulties may result in bankruptcy filings or cessation of operations. If customers experiencing financial problems default on paying amounts owed to us, we may not be able to collect these amounts or recognize expected revenue. Any material payment defaults by our customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with acquisitions. The success of recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions will depend substantially on our ability to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Recent acquisitions in the steel industry have involved prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our recent acquisitions. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy ProcessingCompany(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(b) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003 and our joint ventures, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 28 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007. In 2005, U. S. Steel made an irrevocable decision to purchase the electrolytic galvanizing facility at lease expiration. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works cogeneration facility in the second quarter of 2006. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 150 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 29 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. In 2005, approximately 42 percent of the cases filed against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed (jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000). Approximately 33 percent did not specify any damages at all, approximately 25 percent alleged damages of $1 million and less than half of one percent alleged damages exceeding $10 million. Historically, over 90 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. During 2005, U. S. Steel paid approximately $11 million in settlements. These settlements, along with review of case docket information for certain states and voluntary and involuntary dismissals, resulted in the disposition of approximately 3,800 claims. New case filings added approximately 1,200 claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse 30 Table of Contents effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 14 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2005, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 17 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 7 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 8 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $6.8 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named 31 Table of Contents Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/Feasibility Study (FS). The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project is not presently determinable. U. S. Steels share of the costs for this project will depend upon EPAs selection of an alternative from the range of alternatives presented in the FS and the number of PRPs available to allocate the costs. U. S. Steel anticipates that more PRPs may be added to the group by EPA before the costs of remediation are allocated. U. S. Steel has an accrual of $1.0 million for this site. In addition, there are 12 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 43 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 5 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 16 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 9 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $10 million at one site, in excess of $15 million at two sites and in excess of $25 million at one site. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. As of December 31, 2005, project costs have amounted to $52.5 million. U. S. Steel anticipates doing additional dredging at a cost of $8.4 million. U. S. Steel is presently in discussions with the dredging contractor and intends to meet with EPA in an effort to reduce the anticipated cost of this work. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $1.3 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property with total costs estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel paid its entire share of the assessment costs and $4.5 million of its share of the restoration costs to the public trustees in 2005. A balance of $16 million in restoration costs remains to be paid by U. S. Steel to complete its settlement obligations. 32 Table of Contents On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA and reports of field investigation findings have been submitted to EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans have been submitted to EPA for approval. Three self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $21.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations for the submitted work plans is estimated to be $2.8 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to 2002. On December 27, 2005, IDEM issued a NOV which includes alleged violations at the No. 8 Blast Furnace and the Coke Batteries for the period of 2002 through 2005. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a solid waste management unit (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After its acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel intends to submit a remediation alternative to IDEM recommending an in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.1 million. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $452,000. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects (SEPs) at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved and field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel submitted a Phase I RFI Report to ADEM in February 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $102,000. In addition, U. S. Steel has developed a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $418,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $338,000. 33 Table of Contents Lorain Tubular Operations In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe) with steelmaking, bar producing and tubular operations in Lorain, Ohio, was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Tubular Operations. U. S. Steel and EPA entered into a consent decree that resolved all issues related to U. S. Steels operations. The Consent Decree was filed with the U. S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio Eastern Division (United States of America and State of Ohio v. United States Steel Corporation), where it was entered November 29, 2005. In December 2005, U. S. Steel paid cash penalties totaling $100,025. Also in December 2005, U. S. Steel conducted a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. In addition, U. S. Steel has agreed to perform a SEP to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Issues related to the company that retained the steelmaking and bar producing facilities were resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works Effective February 14, 2005, U. S. Steel entered into a consent order with Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) related to Great Lakes Works that included the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace, which has been completed; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the steel producing facilities; a civil penalty of $950,000, which has been paid; and a SEP at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Various construction projects are underway at the steel producing facilities to improve emission capture and control. These projects are proceeding in compliance with the consent order schedule. Construction for the riverbank restoration SEP was completed in September 2005. On January 6, 2006, Great Lakes Works received a proposed administrative consent order (Order) from the MDEQ that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the facility. The Order identifies certain corrective actions desired by MDEQ to address the alleged violations and anticipates an undisclosed penalty amount. Great Lakes Works had previously initiated work on some of these actions and completed others. Costs to complete the remaining corrective actions requested by MDEQ are presently not determinable. One of the corrective actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has undertaken a project to remove historic basin sediments from these areas. $800,000 has been spent on the project as of December 31, 2005. Costs to complete the river basin project are estimated to be $1.2 million. Great Lakes Works intends to negotiate a settlement of this matter with MDEQ in 2006. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $13.0 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through June 30, 2005. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $385,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. Granite City Granite City Works received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004 for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occur when coke is pushed out of the ovens for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). The IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. The case is anticipated to be resolved by entering into a Consent Order in early 2006, which will include a revised pushing compliance plan and a penalty. IEPA has proposed a civil penalty of $175,000. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. 34 Table of Contents Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by Utah Department of Environmental Quality. In December 2005, a third party purchased the Geneva site and assumed Geneva Steel Companys rights and obligations under the asset sales agreement and the permit pursuant to a bankruptcy court order. U. S. Steel has reviewed environmental data concerning the site gathered by itself and third parties, has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations and has begun remediation on some areas of the site for which U. S. Steel has responsibility. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of remediation and post closure care of three hazardous waste impoundments to be $29.4 million. Other In February 2005, U. S. Steels lease for a third party to mine slag at the Gascola slag disposal site in Penn Hills, Pennsylvania was terminated. Current mining regulations require closure of the site. The cost to close the slag disposal site is estimated to be $2.8 million. This work will include contour of the highwalls and vegetative cover for the entire site. In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The Order allocated responsibility for remediation costs among U. S. Steel and two other parties. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $788,000, based on the agreed allocation factor of 26 percent. U. S. Steel is preparing a Remedial Action Plan (RAP) for the site for submittal to the North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural Resources (NCDENR) that will propose limited soil removal and monitored natural attenuation for groundwater beneath the site. The RAP is due to the NCDENR in April 2006. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its 50 percent share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.8 million. In 2005, KDHE and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service asserted a claim against U. S. Steel and SSB for natural resource damages at the site and nearby creek. The parties have agreed to settlement of this claim for a cash payment and U. S. Steels share is $247,875. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2006, are as follows: John J. Connelly 59 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 57 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer Gretchen R. Haggerty 50 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer David H. Lohr 52 Senior Vice PresidentEuropean Operations & President U. S. Steel Kosice Dan D. Sandman 57 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 56 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 58 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 51 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 35 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 57. As of January 31, 2006, there were 27,427 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment, and increased to $.10 per share effective with the June 2005 payment. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average closing price for U. S. Steels common stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of common shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2005, no unregistered shares were issued. 36 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table contains information about purchases by U. S. Steel of its equity securities during the period covered by this report. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased Average Price Paid per Share Total NumberOf SharesPurchased asPart ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans orPrograms Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under thePlans or Programs January 1 31, 2005 February 1 28, 2005 March 1 31, 2005 Quarter ended March 31, 2005 April 1 30, 2005 May 1 31, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 June 1 30, 2005 Quarter ended June 30, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 July 1 31, 2005 August 1 31, 2005 910,000 $ 42.04 910,000 7,090,000 September 1 30, 2005 300,000 $ 44.27 300,000 6,790,000 Quarter ended September 30, 2005 1,210,000 $ 42.59 1,210,000 6,790,000 October 1 31, 2005 200,000 $ 36.30 200,000 6,590,000 November 1 30, 2005 2,410,000 $ 40.15 2,410,000 4,180,000 December 1 31, 2005 2,000,000 $ 48.90 2,000,000 2,180,000 Quarter ended December 31, 2005 4,610,000 $ 43.78 4,610,000 2,180,000 With the exception of the shares repurchased in May 2005, the above shares were purchased pursuant to the U. S. Steel Common Stock Repurchase Program, which was announced on July 26, 2005 and allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. The above purchases were all made in the open market. On January 31, 2006, U. S. Steel announced the replacement of this repurchase program with a new program having the authority to purchase up to eight million shares of its common stock. It is expected that the purchases will be made from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions. The timing of such purchases will be determined by the company based upon a number of factors including the market price of United States Steel Corporation common stock; the availability and pursuit of strategic initiatives including investment and acquisition opportunities; operating cash flow and internal capital requirements; and general economic conditions in the United States and Europe. Of the shares repurchased in May 2005, 48,638 were purchased pursuant to the exercise by Non Officer Restricted Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan, and the remainder were purchased pursuant to the exercise by 2002 Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan. 37 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) Adjusted(a) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001(b) Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(c) $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 $ 6,949 $ 6,286 Income (loss) from operations(d) 1,439 1,625 (719 ) 123 (404 ) Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(d) 910 1,121 (363 ) 81 (211 ) Net income (loss)(d) $ 910 $ 1,135 $ (420 ) $ 81 $ (211 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) basic $ 7.87 $ 9.87 $ (3.67 ) $ 0.83 $ (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.72 (3.67 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Net income (loss)(e) basic 7.87 10.00 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.83 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Dividends paid(f) 0.38 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.55 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 9,822 $ 11,064 $ 7,897 $ 7,991 $ 8,332 Capitalization: Debt(g) $ 1,612 $ 1,371 $ 1,933 $ 1,434 $ 1,466 Stockholders equity 3,324 4,074 1,151 2,042 2,501 Total capitalization $ 4,936 $ 5,445 $ 3,084 $ 3,476 $ 3,967 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements and the Five Year Financial Summary. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation. On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The income statement for the year ended December 31, 2001 represents a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the sale of the mining assets, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. The increase in net sales from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of a $104 million impairment of receivables that was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected restructuring charges, higher pension and OPEB costs and increased compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. (e) See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (f) For year 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (g) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2002 to 2003 was mainly due to the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May 2003. 38 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the seventh largest steel producer in the world and the second largest integrated steel producer in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to implement our strategy to continue to increase our value added product mix; to expand our global business platform; to improve our capital structure and strengthen our balance sheet; to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets. In Europe, U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing European markets, and to invest in value added facilities, including an automotive hot dip galvanizing line that is currently under construction. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the sustainability of higher steel prices; the cost of purchased raw materials and energy; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has resulted in volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States in 2005 were lower than 2004 levels. Import levels may increase in 2006 depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, consumption in the United States versus other regions and foreign production levels. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on 39 Table of Contents historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2006. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting these rates, we utilize several Merrill Lynch Average AAA/AA Corporate Bond indexes and both the 30 year and the 10 year U. S. Treasury bond rates as a preliminary indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 5.75 percent to 5.50 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2006 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most non union benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2006. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $159 million in 2006. Total OPEB costs in 2006 are expected to be approximately $111 million. 40 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 1/2 percent change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and OPEB calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) (1/2%) 1/2% Expected return on plan assets Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension costs for 2006 $ 34 $ (34 ) Discount rate Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension & OPEB costs for 2006 $ 16 $ (17 ) Pension & OPEB liabilities at December 31, 2005 $ 430 $ (470 ) Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected OPEB costs for 2006 $ (8 ) $ 9 Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of its net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends, without regard to the one time repatriation in 2005, to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2005, net of the $300 million repatriation, amounted to approximately $1,276 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $400 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of 41 Table of Contents remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2005, total accruals for environmental remediation were $145 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. Change in Accounting Method During the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel changed its method of determining the cost of USSK inventories from the last in, first out (LIFO) method to the first in, first out (FIFO) method. Management considers the FIFO method to be preferable to the LIFO method for USSK because it creates consistency of the valuation method used for inventories within the USSE reportable segment and provides for comparability of the USSE segment with major international competitors. In accordance with FAS No. 154, prior period results have been adjusted to apply the new method retrospectively. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Segments During 2005, U. S. Steel had three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve domestic customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), container, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil Company LLC and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G Coatings Company L.P., which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with the former owner of USSB. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the USSB acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service center, appliance, container, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services and the management and development of real estate. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota and Delray Connecting Railroad Company, which were acquired from National. Prior to the sale on June 30, 2003 of U. S. Steels coal mines and related assets, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer values of steel rounds and bands supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs and may be adjusted quarterly if actual production costs warrant. For further information, see Note 6 to the Financial Statements. 42 Table of Contents Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales of U. S. Steel by segment for each of the last three years: (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2005 2004 2003(a) Flat rolled(b)(c) $ 8,813 $ 9,827 $ 6,401 USSE 3,336 2,839 1,817 Tubular 1,546 941 573 Straightline(c) 138 Total sales from reportable segments 13,695 13,607 8,929 Other Businesses(d) 344 368 399 Net sales $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Includes net sales from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. (d) Includes net sales from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business, and from the sale of coal prior to June 30, 2003, when U. S. Steel sold its coal mining business. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2005 versus Year Ended December 31, 2004 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 14 % 6 % 0 % 0 % 2 % 10 % USSE 2 % 14 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 6 % 52 % 5 % 0 % 1 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects 43 Table of Contents Total net sales in 2005 increased by $64 million compared to 2004. Sales for the Flat rolled segment were down 10 percent as the increases in Flat rolled average steel prices (up $43 per ton) were more than offset by lower sheet shipment volumes and lower trade shipments of coke. Sales for USSE increased by 18 percent mainly as a result of higher average steel prices (up $81 per ton). Tubular sales were up significantly due primarily to higher average prices (up $463 per ton), as well as increased shipment volumes and an improved product mix. Year Ended December 31, 2004 versus Year Ended December 31, 2003 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 12 % 34 % 4 % 0 % 4 % 54 % USSE 2 % 28 % 11 % 7 % 8 % 56 % Tubular 23 % 42 % 2 % 0 % 3 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects Total net sales in 2004 increased $4,647 million compared to 2003. Sales for the Flat rolled segment increased 54 percent mainly as a result of higher average realized prices (up $152 per ton), higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products; and higher sales on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill. Sales for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. USSE sales were up 56 percent mainly due to higher average realized prices (up $171 per ton), favorable changes in product mix and favorable foreign currency exchange rate effects. Sales for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. The 64 percent increase for Tubular was primarily due to higher average realized prices (up $233 per ton) and shipment volumes. Operating expenses Profit based union payments Results for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 included costs related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. All of these costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 % Change Allocated to segment results $ 115 $ 131 12 % Retiree benefit expenses 100 110 9 % Total $ 215 $ 241 11 % Payment amounts per the agreement with the USWA are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) to be contributed to the National Benefit Trust, the purpose of which (when established) is to assist National retirees with healthcare costs, based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item were calculated and recorded through the income statement in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. 44 Table of Contents Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $280 million in 2005, compared to $254 million in 2004 and $556 million in 2003. The costs in 2005, 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $23 million, $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The increase from 2004 to 2005 mainly reflected a lower asset base, which resulted in a higher amortization of net actuarial losses and a lower return on plan assets. Excluding the settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $109 million in 2005, $106 million in 2004 and $241 million in 2003. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $19 million in 2005, $18 million in 2004 and $15 million in 2003. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $698 million in 2005, compared to $739 million in 2004. The decline primarly reflected lower expenses for stock based and executive compensation, partially offset by higher pension costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower stock based compensation and lower OPEB costs. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for further details. 45 Table of Contents Income (loss) from operations:(a) Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(b) (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 Flat rolled(c) $ 602 $ 1,185 $ (54 ) USSE 502 439 214 Tubular 528 197 (25 ) Straightline(c) (70 ) Total income from reportable segments 1,632 1,821 65 Other Businesses 43 58 15 Segment income from operations $ 1,675 $ 1,879 $ 80 Retiree benefit expenses (267 ) (257 ) (107 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain 70 Stock appreciation rights 1 (23 ) (75 ) Workforce reduction charges (20 ) (17 ) (621 ) Environmental remediation at previously sold facility (20 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Asset impairments (57 ) Litigation items (25 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,439 $ 1,625 $ (719 ) (a) See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. (b) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. 46 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled segment income in 2005 declined by $583 million compared to 2004. The decrease primarily resulted from lower steel and commercial coke shipment volumes and higher costs for raw materials, outages, energy and labor. These were partially offset by increased prices for flat rolled products and higher transfer values for steel rounds supplied to Tubular. During 2005, the cost to produce tube rounds has increased dramatically and the transfer price for tube rounds supplied to Tubular, which had been established at the beginning of 2005 based on projected costs, was increased by $53 per ton effective April 1, 2005, by an additional $20 per ton effective July 1, 2005, and by an additional $46 per ton effective October 1, 2005. Capability utilization in 2005 was adversely affected by the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace as well as lower demand levels early in the year as a result of high service center and end customer inventory levels. Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. 47 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income of $502 million for 2005 increased by $63 million from 2004 due mainly to higher prices, partially offset by increased raw material and outage costs. USSE segment income for 2004 was $439 million, compared to income of $214 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. Capability utilization declined in 2003 and 2004 primarily due to the inclusion of USSB as one of its two blast furnaces was not operational until the third quarter of 2005. Capability utilization was also adversely affected in 2005 by the rebuild of our largest European blast furnace in Slovakia and in 2004 by operational difficulties with a blast furnace early in the year. 48 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular Tubular segment income of $528 million in 2005 reflected an improvement of $331 million compared to 2004. The increase resulted mainly from higher prices, partially offset by higher costs for steel rounds as discussed in Segment results for Flat rolled. Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of steel rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which were transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. Results for Other Businesses The decline in income from Other Businesses from $58 million in 2004 to $43 million in 2005 was mainly due to lower results at iron ore pellet operations due to lower trade sales and increased costs for natural gas, partially offset by higher intersegment sales and by improved results for real estate activities and transportation services. Other Businesses recorded income of $58 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services, partially offset by lower results for real estate activities. Items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain of $70 million in 2005 resulted from a personal property tax settlement with the city of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana (Gary property tax settlement) and reflected the reversal of accruals in excess of the settlement amount of $44 million. 49 Table of Contents Stock appreciation rights resulted in a credit to compensation expense of $1 million in 2005 and charges of $23 million and $75 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued from 1995 through 2003 and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. Workforce reduction charges of $20 million in 2005 reflected special termination benefits for a voluntary early retirement program offered to certain employees at USSK. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain coal seam gas interests and from the sale in June 2003 of our coal mines and related assets. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and recognition of certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Net interest and other financial costs Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(a) (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Net interest and other financial costs $ 72 $ 156 $ 167 Foreign currency losses (gains) 80 (36 ) (54 ) Adjustment from Gary property tax settlement (25 ) Adjustment related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes (38 ) (17 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 33 Total net interest and other financial costs $ 127 $ 115 $ 96 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Net interest and other financial costs in 2005 included a favorable adjustment of $25 million related to the Gary property tax settlement. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 also included a $33 million charge resulting from the early extinguishment of certain senior debt. Excluding these items, the $32 million increase in 2005 primarily reflected an unfavorable change in foreign currency effects. This was partially offset by lower debt levels resulting from the retirement of USSK long term debt in November 2004 and the redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004, higher interest income and lower interest on tax related liabilities. Excluding the previously identified items, the small increase in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected a smaller foreign currency gain, partially offset by higher interest income and 50 Table of Contents lower interest on tax related liabilities. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which was the functional currency of both prior to January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of our operations outside the United States was the U.S. dollar through December 31, 2005. As of January 1, 2006, the functional currency for USSK and USSB was changed from the U.S. dollar to the euro primarily because of significant changes in economic facts and circumstances as a result of Slovakias entry into the European Union and the subsequent entry of the Slovak koruna into the Exchange Rate Mechanizm II in preparation for Slovakias adoption of the euro. Other factors that contributed to this change are the evolution of USSE into an autonomous business segment, the settlement of its U.S. dollar denominated debt and the establishment of euro based debt facilities. This change in functional currency will be applied on a prospective basis. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2005 was $365 million, compared to $356 million in 2004 and a benefit of $452 million in 2003. The provision in 2005 included a charge of $37 million resulting from the $95 million pre tax gain from the Gary property tax settlement and a $16 million charge resulting from the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. During 2005, a current tax provision was booked for USSK because the provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 50 percent of its tax liability for years 2005 through 2009, compared to a 100 percent credit in previous years. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefit in 2003 included a favorable effect relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million. The tax provisions in all three years were primarily the result of pre tax results from domestic operations. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets of $472 million. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2005, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $14 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $81 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the cumulative losses experienced since the acquisition of USSB. If USSB generates sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $58 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2005 was $910 million, compared with $1,135 million in 2004 and with a net loss of $420 million in 2003. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2005 increased $480 million from year end 2004 primarily due to increased cash balances (see Cash Flows) and higher inventories, partially offset by a reduction in outstanding accounts receivable. The increase in inventories was mainly due to higher quantities of raw materials. The decrease in accounts receivables primarily resulted from lower sales in the fourth quarter of 2005, compared to the fourth quarter of 2004, due mainly to lower prices and shipment volumes for flat rolled products. 51 Table of Contents FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability was required for this plan. Consequently, entries were recorded that eliminated prepaid pensions, increased the intangible pension asset by $250 million and resulted in a net charge to equity of $1.37 billion, which increased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2005 increased $171 million from year end 2004 and long term deferred income tax liabilities were eliminated, primarily due to the establishment of federal and state deferred tax assets in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2005 increased $214 million from year end 2004 mainly due to the increase in short term debt and current maturities of long term debt, which primarily reflects amounts drawn against a one year revolving credit facility at USSK. The facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation of $300 million in foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities of $1,218 million in 2005 and $1,400 million in 2004 was more than adequate to cover investing and financing activities. In 2003, net cash provided from operating activities was $577 million, which was insufficient to cover the acquisitions of National and USSB. The shortfall was covered by the issuance of long term debt and preferred stock. Cash from operating activities was reduced by payments related to employee benefits as shown in the table below. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Employee Benefit Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ (130 ) $ (295 ) $ (16 ) OPEB payments not funded by trusts (213 ) (186 ) (60 ) Contributions to VEBA(a) (60 ) (30 ) Contributions to other OPEB trusts (22 ) (4 ) (19 ) Payments to multiemployer pension plans(b) (28 ) (50 )(c) Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts (24 ) (44 ) (15 ) Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ (477 ) $ (609 ) $ (110 ) (a) All were voluntary except for $10 million in 2005. (b) Primarily the Steelworkers Pension Trust. (c) Includes $11 million related to 2003 hours worked. 52 Table of Contents Capital expenditures were $741 million in 2005, $579 million in 2004 and $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $492 million in 2005 included spending for the major rebuild of the largest U. S. Steel blast furnace at Gary Works, for environmental projects at our iron ore operations and for coke oven thru wall repairs. European expenditures of $249 million included spending at USSK for air emission reduction projects for cokemaking and steelmaking facilities, for a new automotive galvanizing line, for construction of an air separation plant and for blast furnace upgrades; and spending at USSB for the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Domestic expenditures in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Tubular Operations and other smaller projects, the most significant of which were at Gary Works, Mon Valley Works and Minntac. European expenditures in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. 53 Table of Contents U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2005, totaled $82 million. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2005, was $53 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $156 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2005, leaving a balance of $1 million under this commitment. Capital expenditures for 2006 are expected to be approximately $700 million, reflecting approximately $440 million for domestic operations and $260 million for European operations. Domestic projects include the completion of the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace at Gary Works, acquisition of mobile, mining and other production equipment, and coke oven thru wall replacements at Clairton Works. We are also evaluating alternatives to add cokemaking capacity and to enhance energy recovery efficiency. Projects in Slovakia include continued spending for a new automotive galvanizing line, and continuing work on air emission reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include preparatory work for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace in 2007. The preceding statement concerning expected 2006 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2005 reflected amounts drawn against a USSK credit agreement that was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Common stock repurchased reflected cash utilized to repurchase 5.8 million shares of U. S. Steel common stock during 2005 in the open market. A U. S. Steel common stock repurchase program, which was announced during the third quarter of 2005, allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. On January 31, 2006, the Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004, which were used for the early redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004. This redemption is included in repayment of long term debt, which also reflects the retirement of long term USSK debt in November 2004. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock Series B Preferred Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2005 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.08 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2004 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2003 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 1.206 $ Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average market price for U. S. Steels common 54 Table of Contents stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Liquidity U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement to sell a revolving interest in eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries through a commercial paper conduit program with funding under the facility up to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. The Receivables Purchase Agreement expires on November 28, 2006. Qualifying accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. While the Receivables Purchase Agreement expires in November 2006, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed in the following paragraph and other debt obligations, any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 22, 2006. As of December 31, 2005, $500 million was available to be sold under this facility. U. S. Steel has a revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by a lien on our domestic inventory and receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement (Inventory Facility). The Inventory Facility contains restrictive covenants, many of which apply only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million, including a fixed charge coverage ratio test. In addition, a $100 million availability block may apply beginning May 1, 2008 until the 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes) are repaid, refinanced or defeased. Interest on borrowings is calculated based on either LIBOR or the agents prime rate using spreads based on facility availability as defined in the agreement. Although there were no amounts drawn against this facility at December 31, 2005, availability was $594 million due to $6 million of letters of credit issued against the facility. This facility expires in October 2009. At December 31, 2005, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. USSB was the sole obligor on a EUR 9.3 million committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility expired on September 27, 2005. On September 28, 2005, USSB entered into a new EUR 25 million facility (which approximated $30 million at December 31, 2005), which is secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods and expires September 28, 2008. At December 31, 2005, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. USSK is the sole obligor on a EUR 195 million revolving credit facility (which approximated $231 million at December 31, 2005) that expires in December 2006. The facility bears interest at EURIBOR plus 20 basis points. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on undrawn amounts. At December 31, 2005, this facility was fully drawn. This facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes, and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). 55 Table of Contents On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.5 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $114 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4 million during 2005, and does not expect any material changes in 2006. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2005, in the amount of $2 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as $556 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases and $41 million relating to certain operating leases, may be declared immediately due and payable. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2005: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents(a) $ 1,452 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 56 Amounts available under USSB credit facility 30 Total estimated liquidity(b) $ 2,632 (a) Excludes $27 million of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. (b) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U.S.Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (a) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U. S. Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (b) Excludes $27 million and $16 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity has increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. 57 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2005, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2006 2007through2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,613 $ 249 $ 394 $ 413 $ 557 Operating leases(b) 376 106 121 52 97 Capital commitments(c) 135 49 33 53 Environmental commitments(c) 145 26 119 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e) 29 51 (e) Other postretirement benefits (f) 225 530 500 (f) Total contractual obligations $ 2,269 (g) $ 684 $ 1,129 $ 965 $ 826 (g) (a) See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2006 through 2010 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2005, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $130 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $24 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in 2006. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $13 million to pension plans not funded by trusts in 2006. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension 58 Table of Contents plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust to be established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2005, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2006 2007through 2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 83 $ 75 $ $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 16 4 12 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 34 34 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 10 8 1 1 Contingent liabilities: Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 3,886 2,507 1,078 195 106 Total commercial commitments $ 4,179 $ 2,594 $ 1,079 $ 195 $ 311 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 19 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works co generation facility in the second quarter of 2006; therefore, the agreement for the supply of electric power (previously expiring in 2011) will be terminated. U. S. Steel has an off balance sheet arrangement for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. This operating lease arrangement is with a special purpose trust (Trust). The Trust financed the construction of the facility and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficiaries of the Trust. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of this entity and there is no assurance that U. S. Steel will purchase the facility at lease expiration. U. S. Steels transactions with the Trust are limited to the operating lease agreement, and the associated lease expense is included in cost of sales on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate this Trust because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. 59 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement resulted in an increase of approximately $45 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance in order to meet environmental standards as established from time to time by Slovak law. One current compliance project is a dedusting system 60 Table of Contents for Steel Shop No. 2 to meet air emission standards for particulates. These standards are applicable January 1, 2007 and USSK is attempting to complete the project by this deadline; however, project completion is currently anticipated for the first quarter 2007. Failure to meet the applicable deadline could result in the imposition of corrective measures by the Slovak Ministry of Environment (Ministry). While the United States has not ratified the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC), in order to provide EU member states a mechanism for fulfilling their Kyoto commitments, has established its own CO2 limits for every EU member state. In 2004, the EC approved a national allocation plan for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias originally proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent, and following that decision the Ministry imposed an 8 percent reduction to the amount of CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. Subsequently, USSK filed legal actions agains the EC and the Ministry challenging these reductions. In addition, USSK is evaluating a number of alternatives ranging from purchasing CO2 allowances to reducing steel production, and it is not currently possible to predict the impact of these decisions on USSK. However, the actual shortfall of allowances for the initial allocation period (2005 through 2007) will depend upon a number of internal and external variables and the effect of that shortfall on USSK cannot be predicted at this time. Based on the fair value of the anticipated shortfall of allowances related to production in 2005, a long term other liability of $4 million has been charged to income and recorded on the balance sheet. Domestically, while ratification of the Kyoto Protocol does not seem likely in the near term, there remains the possibility that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may impose limitations on greenhouse gases. The impact on U. S. Steels domestic operations cannot be estimated. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Domestic: Capital $ 66 $ 24 $ 8 Compliance Operating & maintenance 305 241 206 Remediation(b) 23 18 38 Total Domestic $ 394 $ 283 $ 252 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 97 $ 22 Compliance Operating & maintenance 12 8 10 Remediation(b) 3 3 3 Total USSE $ 82 $ 108 $ 35 Total U. S. Steel $ 476 $ 391 $ 287 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 18 percent of total capital expenditures in 2005, 21 percent in 2004 and 10 percent in 2003. Compliance expenditures represented 3 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2005, 2 percent in 2004 and 3 percent in 2003. Remediation spending during 2003 to 2005 was mainly related to remediation 61 Table of Contents activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2005, U. S. Steel accrued $49 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2005, was $145 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2006. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $113 million in 2006, $61 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2006 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $76 million in 2007, including $60 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. The Senate Judiciary Committee has recommended to the Senate legislation that, if enacted, would create an asbestos trust fund that would provide benefits to asbestos claimants funded by payments over 30 years of 62 Table of Contents $136 billion from companies and their insurers that have been involved in asbestos litigation, including U. S. Steel along with thousands of others. The legislation would provide an administrative system to process asbestos claims instead of resolution through judicial proceedings. The amount that a company would be required to pay under the current version of the legislation would depend upon its placement among several tiers and sub tiers, based upon corporate revenue and prior expenditures related to asbestos defense costs, settlements and judgments. Management estimates that if the legislation were adopted in the form proposed by the Judiciary Committee, the annual cost to U. S. Steel would be somewhat greater than the historical cost of asbestos defense and settlement. It is unclear whether any legislation will be adopted and any final legislation may be substantially different than the version recommended by the Judiciary Committee. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional detail concerning asbestos litigation, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. Outlook for 2006 The first quarter of 2006 looks positive for our domestic and European markets. Service center and end customer inventories are balanced and we expect continued strength in the energy markets served by our Tubular segment. For Flat rolled, first quarter 2006 shipments are expected to improve compared to the fourth quarter of 2005 due to the restart of the Gary No. 14 blast furnace, with prices at or above the fourth quarter level. We expect higher raw material costs to be largely offset by reduced energy and outage costs. For U. S. Steel Europe, first quarter shipments are expected to increase and average realized prices and costs should be consistent with fourth quarter levels. However, first quarter results will be negatively affected by production curtailments at Serbian operations as a result of natural gas supply disruptions and could also be negatively affected by potential job related actions by a labor union at USSB that is dissatisfied with the 2006 wage agreement, which became effective upon approval of the other unions. Shipments and average realized prices for the Tubular segment in the first quarter of 2006 are expected to be in line with the fourth quarter. First quarter 2006 results for Other Businesses should decline from the fourth quarter due primarily to normal seasonal variations at our iron ore operations in Minnesota. Total costs for pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately $300 million in 2006, compared to $390 million in 2005. Accounting Standards In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123R. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value 63 Table of Contents of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved a new rule that delayed the effective date of FAS 123R. Except for this deferral of the effective date, the guidance in FAS 123R is unchanged. Under the SECs rule, FAS 123R is now effective for U. S. Steel for annual rather than interim periods that begin after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply this Statement to all awards granted on or after January 1, 2006 and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after January 1, 2006 for the portion of outstanding awards for which requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for proforma disclosures. Currently, U. S. Steel expects that the effect of adopting this Statement on 2006 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $10 million. In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. This Interpretation clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists. U. S. Steel adopted the provisions of this Interpretation in the second quarter of 2005. There were no financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Interpretation. In May 2005, the FASB issued FAS 154, which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. FAS 154 eliminates the requirement to include the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle in the income statement and instead requires that changes in accounting principle be retroactively applied. FAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and correction of errors made on or after January 1, 2006, with early adoption permitted. U. S. Steel began applying the provisions of this statement in the fourth quarter of 2005. In February 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. This Statement resolves issues addressed in Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. D1, Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets, and is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect any financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Statement. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its market risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in income from operations. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain transactions, primarily related to forecasted natural gas purchases. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the natural gas purchase is settled. Once the purchase is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. 64 Table of Contents Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. U. S. Steel had no open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2005. Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in closing commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004 are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Assuming a Hypothetical PriceDecrease of: 2005 2004 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Incremental Decrease in Income Before Taxes: Zinc $ 2.9 $ 7.2 Natural Gas $ 1.8 $ 4.4 Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2005, may cause future pretax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $7 million in 2005, compared to gains of $4 million in 2004 and $1 million in 2003. These gains were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For carrying amount and fair value of derivative commodity instruments, see Note 26 to the Financial Statements. 65 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2005 and 2004 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 18 $ $ 7 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 1,568 $ 36 $ 1,419 $ 50 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2005, and 2004, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. (d) For additional information, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $36 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $23.1 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $61.6 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2005 euro forward rates would result in a $8.5 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 66 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. The CAA specifically addressed the regulation and control of coke oven batteries. U. S. Steel has elected to comply with the Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) standards and believes it will be able to meet the current LAER standards. The LAER standards are expected to be further revised in 2010 and additional health risk based standards are expected to be adopted in 2020. The Phase II Coke MACT for pushing, quenching and battery stacks requires compliance by April 14, 2006. The EPA is developing regulations to address Regional Haze, the impact of which could be significant to U. S. Steel, but the cost cannot be reasonably estimated until the final regulations are promulgated and, more importantly, the states implement their State Implementation Plans covering their standards. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains the necessary discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts its operations to be in compliance with such permits. For 20 Table of Contents additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 21,000 domestically and approximately 25,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in December 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Most employees at USSB are represented by three unions and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. On February 10, 2006, USSB and two of the three unions agreed to the hourly base earnings for 2006 and signed an annex to the collective bargaining agreement. As of the date of this filing, the largest labor union at USSB had not agreed to the negotiated 2006 hourly base earnings or signed the annex. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. 21 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income (loss) by reportable segments and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 6 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 60 and F 61. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is cyclical and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows general economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in various smaller geographic areas. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess world supply. This has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness, which have not been offset by commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. Rapidly growing demand and supply in China and other developing economies may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years steel consumption in China and other developing economies such as India has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by developing plans to rapidly increase steel production capability in these countries. Steel production, especially in China, has been expanding rapidly and could be well in excess of Chinese demand depending on continuing demand growth rates. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any significant Chinese capacity excess could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if excess production is exported to other markets. Increases in prices and limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. Steel producers require large amounts of raw materials iron ore or other iron containing material, steel scrap, coke and coal for integrated producers such as U. S. Steel, and scrap for mini mill producers. Both integrated and mini mill producers consume large amounts of energy. Over the last several years, prices for raw materials and energy, in particular natural gas, have increased significantly. In many cases these price increases have been a greater percentage than price increases for the sale of steel products. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in receiving sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner, resulting in production curtailments. These production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins and may continue to do so in the future. 22 Table of Contents Increased imports of steel products into the U.S. could negatively affect domestic steel prices and demand levels and reduce profitability of domestic producers. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 25 percent of the domestic steel market in 2005, 26 percent in 2004 and 19 percent in 2003. Foreign competitors typically have lower labor costs, and are often owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Import levels may also be impacted by decisions of government agencies under U.S. trade laws. Increases in future levels of imported steel could reduce future market prices and demand levels for domestic steel. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Domestic steel producers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the European Union and Japan are generally comparable to domestic standards, other nations have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to unplanned equipment failures. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Availability of supplies could also be affected by logistical disruptions (shortages of barges or rail cars). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. Risk Factors concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Many lawsuits have been filed against U. S. Steel involving asbestos related injuries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and cash flow. U. S. Steel is a defendant in a large number of cases in which approximately 8,400 claimants actively allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. Many of these cases involve multiple claimants (often hundreds or thousands) and defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred). It is possible that we may experience large judgments against us in the future that could have an impact upon the number of future claims filed against us and on the amount of future settlements, which would have an adverse impact on our profitability and cash flow. Our retiree employee health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans covering most of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 114,000 current retirees and beneficiaries are receiving pension and or medical benefits. U. S. Steels underfunded benefit obligations for retiree medical and life insurance were $2.3 billion at year end 2005. Most of these underfunded obligations are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Other postretirement benefit expense is expected to be approximately $111 million in 2006. 23 Table of Contents Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Several domestic competitors provide defined contribution health care plans with contributions increased based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. Our defined benefit pension plan costs are higher than those of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We have noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering many of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. The funded status of these plans declined from an overfunded position of $1.2 billion at year end 2001 to an underfunded position of $606 million at year end 2005. Minimum contributions to these plans is controlled under ERISA and other government regulations and substantial cash contributions may be required. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Pension benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Most domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit pension plans, but may provide defined contribution pension plans with contributions increasing based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our profitability and cash flow. U. S. Steel is currently involved in approximately 60 remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to third parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Numerous domestic competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Domestic competitors that have obtained relief under the Bankruptcy Code may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors applicable to U. S. Steel The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Under the terms of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due 2008 and our 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010 (collectively, the Senior Notes), we are not able to pay dividends on capital stock unless we meet certain restricted payment tests. The terms of our indebtedness and our accounts receivable program contain restrictive provisions that may limit our flexibility. We have Senior Notes outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $726 million as of December 31, 2005. The Senior Notes impose significant restrictions on us such as limits on additional borrowings and certain investments and the use of funds from asset sales. Our $600 million revolving credit agreement secured by inventory prohibits us from selling certain principal properties and imposes additional restrictions if the amount available to be borrowed under that agreement is less than $100 million. Such restrictions include maintaining a fixed charge coverage ratio and limitations on capital expenditures and investments. The Senior Notes, the revolving credit agreement and some of our other loan facilities and leases have provisions that may cause a default under one of these agreements to become a default under the others. These covenants may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 24 Table of Contents Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. Any downgrade in our credit ratings would make raising capital more difficult, would increase the cost of future borrowings and would affect the terms on which we purchase goods and services. In addition, the fees payable under our receivables sales program would increase and the amount of receivables eligible for sale could be reduced. Change in control clauses may require us to immediately purchase or repay debt. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, inventory facility and various other loan documents, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately purchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. We may not have the financial resources to make these purchases and repayments, and a failure to purchase or repay such indebtedness would trigger cross acceleration clauses under the Senior Notes and other indebtedness. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to realize. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net federal, foreign and state deferred tax assets of $486 million. Although management believes that it is more likely than not that future operating results and tax planning strategies generating sufficient future taxable income can be utilized to realize the net deferred tax assets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate such results or implement these strategies. Our international operations expose us to uncertainties and risks from abroad, which could negatively affect our results of operations. USSK, located in the Slovak Republic, and USSB, located in Serbia, constitute nearly 28% of our total raw steel production capability, and accounted for 24% of net sales for 2005. Both USSK and USSB are subject to economic conditions and political factors in Europe, which if changed could negatively affect their results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSK and USSB are also subject to foreign currency exchange risks. Any future international acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Natural gas supplies to USSB may be curtailed and such curtailments would have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. USSB is dependent upon availability of natural gas in Serbia, which is dependent upon a single pipeline. Serbia has experienced major curtailments during periods of peak demand in Eastern Europe. Such curtailments have forced USSB to interrupt steel production and finishing operations in the past and this could recur in the future. The carbon dioxide emission limits established by the European Commission may limit the amount of steel that can be produced at USSK and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. The European Commission (EC) has established carbon dioxide (CO2) emission limits for EU member countries. Under this program the Slovak Ministry of the Environment has reduced the amount of CO2 that USSK may emit. USSK may be required to reduce its production or purchase emission credits, either of which may have a negative impact on income and cash flow. Our business requires substantial debt service, contingent obligations, capital investment, operating lease, capital commitments and maintenance expenditures that we may be unable to fulfill. With approximately $1.6 billion of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2005, we have substantial debt service requirements. Interest and other financial costs, excluding foreign currency losses, interest income, capitalized 25 Table of Contents interest and the adjustment from the Gary property tax settlement, totaled $124 million in 2005 and are expected to be about the same in 2006; however, interest and other financial costs will change with changes to our capital structure. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2005, total capital expenditures were $2.2 billion. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program over a period commencing with the acquisition date and ending on December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2005, the remaining commitment under this program was $53 million. At December 31, 2005, our domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $82 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $376 million under operating leases. In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, raw steel and steel finishing production facilities, including periodic relines or rebuilds of our seventeen blast furnaces. As of December 31, 2005, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $133 million, guarantees of approximately $10 million of indebtedness for unconsolidated entities and contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements of approximately $3.9 billion, plus contingencies under the sale of our mining assets of approximately $79 million. As the general partner of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P., we are obligated to fund cash shortfalls incurred by that partnership but may withdraw as the general partner if we are required to fund in excess of $150 million in operating cash shortfalls. As of December 31, 2005, we were also contingently liable for $2 million of debt and other obligations of Marathon. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. U. S. Steels insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insurance retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. The collective bargaining agreement with the USWA contains provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USWA, grants the USWA a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the collective bargaining agreement and requires us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities. That agreement also restricts our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further requires that the ratio of non USWA employees to USWA employees at our domestic facilities not exceed 1 to 5. Strikes, work stoppages and customer concern about the possibility of strikes, particularly upon the expiration of our major domestic collective bargaining agreement, could adversely impact our relationships with our customers which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, mini mill producers and certain foreign competitors and producers of comparable products do not have unionized work forces. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USWA, foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. U. S. Steel is involved in multiemployer plans covering pensions and other postretirement benefit costs. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of these plans, which will have a negative effect on our cash flows. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of these plans. 26 Table of Contents U. S. Steel is subject to work stoppages as a result of periodic labor negotiations at facilities in Europe. Most employees at USSK and USSB are represented by unions pursuant to agreements that expire in December 2007 and November 2006, respectively, both of which are subject to annual wage rate negotiations. Any strike or work stoppage upon expiration of the current agreements or as a result of the inability to agree on annual wage rates could have significant negative effects on results of operations. Customer payment defaults could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries and could experience financial difficulties in times of economic downturn. In some cases, these difficulties may result in bankruptcy filings or cessation of operations. If customers experiencing financial problems default on paying amounts owed to us, we may not be able to collect these amounts or recognize expected revenue. Any material payment defaults by our customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with acquisitions. The success of recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions will depend substantially on our ability to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Recent acquisitions in the steel industry have involved prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our recent acquisitions. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy ProcessingCompany(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(b) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003 and our joint ventures, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 28 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007. In 2005, U. S. Steel made an irrevocable decision to purchase the electrolytic galvanizing facility at lease expiration. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works cogeneration facility in the second quarter of 2006. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 150 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 29 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. In 2005, approximately 42 percent of the cases filed against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed (jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000). Approximately 33 percent did not specify any damages at all, approximately 25 percent alleged damages of $1 million and less than half of one percent alleged damages exceeding $10 million. Historically, over 90 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. During 2005, U. S. Steel paid approximately $11 million in settlements. These settlements, along with review of case docket information for certain states and voluntary and involuntary dismissals, resulted in the disposition of approximately 3,800 claims. New case filings added approximately 1,200 claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse 30 Table of Contents effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 14 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2005, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 17 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 7 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 8 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $6.8 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named 31 Table of Contents Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/Feasibility Study (FS). The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project is not presently determinable. U. S. Steels share of the costs for this project will depend upon EPAs selection of an alternative from the range of alternatives presented in the FS and the number of PRPs available to allocate the costs. U. S. Steel anticipates that more PRPs may be added to the group by EPA before the costs of remediation are allocated. U. S. Steel has an accrual of $1.0 million for this site. In addition, there are 12 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 43 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 5 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 16 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 9 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $10 million at one site, in excess of $15 million at two sites and in excess of $25 million at one site. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. As of December 31, 2005, project costs have amounted to $52.5 million. U. S. Steel anticipates doing additional dredging at a cost of $8.4 million. U. S. Steel is presently in discussions with the dredging contractor and intends to meet with EPA in an effort to reduce the anticipated cost of this work. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $1.3 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property with total costs estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel paid its entire share of the assessment costs and $4.5 million of its share of the restoration costs to the public trustees in 2005. A balance of $16 million in restoration costs remains to be paid by U. S. Steel to complete its settlement obligations. 32 Table of Contents On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA and reports of field investigation findings have been submitted to EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans have been submitted to EPA for approval. Three self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $21.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations for the submitted work plans is estimated to be $2.8 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to 2002. On December 27, 2005, IDEM issued a NOV which includes alleged violations at the No. 8 Blast Furnace and the Coke Batteries for the period of 2002 through 2005. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a solid waste management unit (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After its acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel intends to submit a remediation alternative to IDEM recommending an in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.1 million. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $452,000. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects (SEPs) at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved and field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel submitted a Phase I RFI Report to ADEM in February 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $102,000. In addition, U. S. Steel has developed a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $418,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $338,000. 33 Table of Contents Lorain Tubular Operations In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe) with steelmaking, bar producing and tubular operations in Lorain, Ohio, was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Tubular Operations. U. S. Steel and EPA entered into a consent decree that resolved all issues related to U. S. Steels operations. The Consent Decree was filed with the U. S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio Eastern Division (United States of America and State of Ohio v. United States Steel Corporation), where it was entered November 29, 2005. In December 2005, U. S. Steel paid cash penalties totaling $100,025. Also in December 2005, U. S. Steel conducted a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. In addition, U. S. Steel has agreed to perform a SEP to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Issues related to the company that retained the steelmaking and bar producing facilities were resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works Effective February 14, 2005, U. S. Steel entered into a consent order with Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) related to Great Lakes Works that included the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace, which has been completed; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the steel producing facilities; a civil penalty of $950,000, which has been paid; and a SEP at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Various construction projects are underway at the steel producing facilities to improve emission capture and control. These projects are proceeding in compliance with the consent order schedule. Construction for the riverbank restoration SEP was completed in September 2005. On January 6, 2006, Great Lakes Works received a proposed administrative consent order (Order) from the MDEQ that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the facility. The Order identifies certain corrective actions desired by MDEQ to address the alleged violations and anticipates an undisclosed penalty amount. Great Lakes Works had previously initiated work on some of these actions and completed others. Costs to complete the remaining corrective actions requested by MDEQ are presently not determinable. One of the corrective actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has undertaken a project to remove historic basin sediments from these areas. $800,000 has been spent on the project as of December 31, 2005. Costs to complete the river basin project are estimated to be $1.2 million. Great Lakes Works intends to negotiate a settlement of this matter with MDEQ in 2006. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $13.0 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through June 30, 2005. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $385,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. Granite City Granite City Works received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004 for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occur when coke is pushed out of the ovens for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). The IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. The case is anticipated to be resolved by entering into a Consent Order in early 2006, which will include a revised pushing compliance plan and a penalty. IEPA has proposed a civil penalty of $175,000. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. 34 Table of Contents Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by Utah Department of Environmental Quality. In December 2005, a third party purchased the Geneva site and assumed Geneva Steel Companys rights and obligations under the asset sales agreement and the permit pursuant to a bankruptcy court order. U. S. Steel has reviewed environmental data concerning the site gathered by itself and third parties, has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations and has begun remediation on some areas of the site for which U. S. Steel has responsibility. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of remediation and post closure care of three hazardous waste impoundments to be $29.4 million. Other In February 2005, U. S. Steels lease for a third party to mine slag at the Gascola slag disposal site in Penn Hills, Pennsylvania was terminated. Current mining regulations require closure of the site. The cost to close the slag disposal site is estimated to be $2.8 million. This work will include contour of the highwalls and vegetative cover for the entire site. In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The Order allocated responsibility for remediation costs among U. S. Steel and two other parties. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $788,000, based on the agreed allocation factor of 26 percent. U. S. Steel is preparing a Remedial Action Plan (RAP) for the site for submittal to the North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural Resources (NCDENR) that will propose limited soil removal and monitored natural attenuation for groundwater beneath the site. The RAP is due to the NCDENR in April 2006. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its 50 percent share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.8 million. In 2005, KDHE and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service asserted a claim against U. S. Steel and SSB for natural resource damages at the site and nearby creek. The parties have agreed to settlement of this claim for a cash payment and U. S. Steels share is $247,875. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2006, are as follows: John J. Connelly 59 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 57 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer Gretchen R. Haggerty 50 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer David H. Lohr 52 Senior Vice PresidentEuropean Operations & President U. S. Steel Kosice Dan D. Sandman 57 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 56 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 58 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 51 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 35 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 57. As of January 31, 2006, there were 27,427 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment, and increased to $.10 per share effective with the June 2005 payment. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average closing price for U. S. Steels common stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of common shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2005, no unregistered shares were issued. 36 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table contains information about purchases by U. S. Steel of its equity securities during the period covered by this report. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased Average Price Paid per Share Total NumberOf SharesPurchased asPart ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans orPrograms Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under thePlans or Programs January 1 31, 2005 February 1 28, 2005 March 1 31, 2005 Quarter ended March 31, 2005 April 1 30, 2005 May 1 31, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 June 1 30, 2005 Quarter ended June 30, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 July 1 31, 2005 August 1 31, 2005 910,000 $ 42.04 910,000 7,090,000 September 1 30, 2005 300,000 $ 44.27 300,000 6,790,000 Quarter ended September 30, 2005 1,210,000 $ 42.59 1,210,000 6,790,000 October 1 31, 2005 200,000 $ 36.30 200,000 6,590,000 November 1 30, 2005 2,410,000 $ 40.15 2,410,000 4,180,000 December 1 31, 2005 2,000,000 $ 48.90 2,000,000 2,180,000 Quarter ended December 31, 2005 4,610,000 $ 43.78 4,610,000 2,180,000 With the exception of the shares repurchased in May 2005, the above shares were purchased pursuant to the U. S. Steel Common Stock Repurchase Program, which was announced on July 26, 2005 and allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. The above purchases were all made in the open market. On January 31, 2006, U. S. Steel announced the replacement of this repurchase program with a new program having the authority to purchase up to eight million shares of its common stock. It is expected that the purchases will be made from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions. The timing of such purchases will be determined by the company based upon a number of factors including the market price of United States Steel Corporation common stock; the availability and pursuit of strategic initiatives including investment and acquisition opportunities; operating cash flow and internal capital requirements; and general economic conditions in the United States and Europe. Of the shares repurchased in May 2005, 48,638 were purchased pursuant to the exercise by Non Officer Restricted Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan, and the remainder were purchased pursuant to the exercise by 2002 Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan. 37 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) Adjusted(a) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001(b) Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(c) $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 $ 6,949 $ 6,286 Income (loss) from operations(d) 1,439 1,625 (719 ) 123 (404 ) Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(d) 910 1,121 (363 ) 81 (211 ) Net income (loss)(d) $ 910 $ 1,135 $ (420 ) $ 81 $ (211 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) basic $ 7.87 $ 9.87 $ (3.67 ) $ 0.83 $ (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.72 (3.67 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Net income (loss)(e) basic 7.87 10.00 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.83 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Dividends paid(f) 0.38 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.55 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 9,822 $ 11,064 $ 7,897 $ 7,991 $ 8,332 Capitalization: Debt(g) $ 1,612 $ 1,371 $ 1,933 $ 1,434 $ 1,466 Stockholders equity 3,324 4,074 1,151 2,042 2,501 Total capitalization $ 4,936 $ 5,445 $ 3,084 $ 3,476 $ 3,967 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements and the Five Year Financial Summary. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation. On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The income statement for the year ended December 31, 2001 represents a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the sale of the mining assets, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. The increase in net sales from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of a $104 million impairment of receivables that was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected restructuring charges, higher pension and OPEB costs and increased compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. (e) See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (f) For year 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (g) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2002 to 2003 was mainly due to the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May 2003. 38 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the seventh largest steel producer in the world and the second largest integrated steel producer in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to implement our strategy to continue to increase our value added product mix; to expand our global business platform; to improve our capital structure and strengthen our balance sheet; to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets. In Europe, U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing European markets, and to invest in value added facilities, including an automotive hot dip galvanizing line that is currently under construction. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the sustainability of higher steel prices; the cost of purchased raw materials and energy; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has resulted in volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States in 2005 were lower than 2004 levels. Import levels may increase in 2006 depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, consumption in the United States versus other regions and foreign production levels. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on 39 Table of Contents historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2006. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting these rates, we utilize several Merrill Lynch Average AAA/AA Corporate Bond indexes and both the 30 year and the 10 year U. S. Treasury bond rates as a preliminary indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 5.75 percent to 5.50 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2006 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most non union benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2006. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $159 million in 2006. Total OPEB costs in 2006 are expected to be approximately $111 million. 40 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 1/2 percent change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and OPEB calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) (1/2%) 1/2% Expected return on plan assets Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension costs for 2006 $ 34 $ (34 ) Discount rate Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension & OPEB costs for 2006 $ 16 $ (17 ) Pension & OPEB liabilities at December 31, 2005 $ 430 $ (470 ) Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected OPEB costs for 2006 $ (8 ) $ 9 Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of its net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends, without regard to the one time repatriation in 2005, to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2005, net of the $300 million repatriation, amounted to approximately $1,276 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $400 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of 41 Table of Contents remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2005, total accruals for environmental remediation were $145 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. Change in Accounting Method During the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel changed its method of determining the cost of USSK inventories from the last in, first out (LIFO) method to the first in, first out (FIFO) method. Management considers the FIFO method to be preferable to the LIFO method for USSK because it creates consistency of the valuation method used for inventories within the USSE reportable segment and provides for comparability of the USSE segment with major international competitors. In accordance with FAS No. 154, prior period results have been adjusted to apply the new method retrospectively. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Segments During 2005, U. S. Steel had three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve domestic customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), container, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil Company LLC and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G Coatings Company L.P., which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with the former owner of USSB. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the USSB acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service center, appliance, container, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services and the management and development of real estate. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota and Delray Connecting Railroad Company, which were acquired from National. Prior to the sale on June 30, 2003 of U. S. Steels coal mines and related assets, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer values of steel rounds and bands supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs and may be adjusted quarterly if actual production costs warrant. For further information, see Note 6 to the Financial Statements. 42 Table of Contents Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales of U. S. Steel by segment for each of the last three years: (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2005 2004 2003(a) Flat rolled(b)(c) $ 8,813 $ 9,827 $ 6,401 USSE 3,336 2,839 1,817 Tubular 1,546 941 573 Straightline(c) 138 Total sales from reportable segments 13,695 13,607 8,929 Other Businesses(d) 344 368 399 Net sales $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Includes net sales from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. (d) Includes net sales from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business, and from the sale of coal prior to June 30, 2003, when U. S. Steel sold its coal mining business. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2005 versus Year Ended December 31, 2004 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 14 % 6 % 0 % 0 % 2 % 10 % USSE 2 % 14 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 6 % 52 % 5 % 0 % 1 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects 43 Table of Contents Total net sales in 2005 increased by $64 million compared to 2004. Sales for the Flat rolled segment were down 10 percent as the increases in Flat rolled average steel prices (up $43 per ton) were more than offset by lower sheet shipment volumes and lower trade shipments of coke. Sales for USSE increased by 18 percent mainly as a result of higher average steel prices (up $81 per ton). Tubular sales were up significantly due primarily to higher average prices (up $463 per ton), as well as increased shipment volumes and an improved product mix. Year Ended December 31, 2004 versus Year Ended December 31, 2003 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 12 % 34 % 4 % 0 % 4 % 54 % USSE 2 % 28 % 11 % 7 % 8 % 56 % Tubular 23 % 42 % 2 % 0 % 3 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects Total net sales in 2004 increased $4,647 million compared to 2003. Sales for the Flat rolled segment increased 54 percent mainly as a result of higher average realized prices (up $152 per ton), higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products; and higher sales on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill. Sales for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. USSE sales were up 56 percent mainly due to higher average realized prices (up $171 per ton), favorable changes in product mix and favorable foreign currency exchange rate effects. Sales for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. The 64 percent increase for Tubular was primarily due to higher average realized prices (up $233 per ton) and shipment volumes. Operating expenses Profit based union payments Results for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 included costs related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. All of these costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 % Change Allocated to segment results $ 115 $ 131 12 % Retiree benefit expenses 100 110 9 % Total $ 215 $ 241 11 % Payment amounts per the agreement with the USWA are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) to be contributed to the National Benefit Trust, the purpose of which (when established) is to assist National retirees with healthcare costs, based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item were calculated and recorded through the income statement in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. 44 Table of Contents Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $280 million in 2005, compared to $254 million in 2004 and $556 million in 2003. The costs in 2005, 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $23 million, $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The increase from 2004 to 2005 mainly reflected a lower asset base, which resulted in a higher amortization of net actuarial losses and a lower return on plan assets. Excluding the settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $109 million in 2005, $106 million in 2004 and $241 million in 2003. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $19 million in 2005, $18 million in 2004 and $15 million in 2003. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $698 million in 2005, compared to $739 million in 2004. The decline primarly reflected lower expenses for stock based and executive compensation, partially offset by higher pension costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower stock based compensation and lower OPEB costs. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for further details. 45 Table of Contents Income (loss) from operations:(a) Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(b) (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 Flat rolled(c) $ 602 $ 1,185 $ (54 ) USSE 502 439 214 Tubular 528 197 (25 ) Straightline(c) (70 ) Total income from reportable segments 1,632 1,821 65 Other Businesses 43 58 15 Segment income from operations $ 1,675 $ 1,879 $ 80 Retiree benefit expenses (267 ) (257 ) (107 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain 70 Stock appreciation rights 1 (23 ) (75 ) Workforce reduction charges (20 ) (17 ) (621 ) Environmental remediation at previously sold facility (20 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Asset impairments (57 ) Litigation items (25 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,439 $ 1,625 $ (719 ) (a) See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. (b) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. 46 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled segment income in 2005 declined by $583 million compared to 2004. The decrease primarily resulted from lower steel and commercial coke shipment volumes and higher costs for raw materials, outages, energy and labor. These were partially offset by increased prices for flat rolled products and higher transfer values for steel rounds supplied to Tubular. During 2005, the cost to produce tube rounds has increased dramatically and the transfer price for tube rounds supplied to Tubular, which had been established at the beginning of 2005 based on projected costs, was increased by $53 per ton effective April 1, 2005, by an additional $20 per ton effective July 1, 2005, and by an additional $46 per ton effective October 1, 2005. Capability utilization in 2005 was adversely affected by the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace as well as lower demand levels early in the year as a result of high service center and end customer inventory levels. Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. 47 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income of $502 million for 2005 increased by $63 million from 2004 due mainly to higher prices, partially offset by increased raw material and outage costs. USSE segment income for 2004 was $439 million, compared to income of $214 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. Capability utilization declined in 2003 and 2004 primarily due to the inclusion of USSB as one of its two blast furnaces was not operational until the third quarter of 2005. Capability utilization was also adversely affected in 2005 by the rebuild of our largest European blast furnace in Slovakia and in 2004 by operational difficulties with a blast furnace early in the year. 48 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular Tubular segment income of $528 million in 2005 reflected an improvement of $331 million compared to 2004. The increase resulted mainly from higher prices, partially offset by higher costs for steel rounds as discussed in Segment results for Flat rolled. Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of steel rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which were transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. Results for Other Businesses The decline in income from Other Businesses from $58 million in 2004 to $43 million in 2005 was mainly due to lower results at iron ore pellet operations due to lower trade sales and increased costs for natural gas, partially offset by higher intersegment sales and by improved results for real estate activities and transportation services. Other Businesses recorded income of $58 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services, partially offset by lower results for real estate activities. Items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain of $70 million in 2005 resulted from a personal property tax settlement with the city of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana (Gary property tax settlement) and reflected the reversal of accruals in excess of the settlement amount of $44 million. 49 Table of Contents Stock appreciation rights resulted in a credit to compensation expense of $1 million in 2005 and charges of $23 million and $75 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued from 1995 through 2003 and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. Workforce reduction charges of $20 million in 2005 reflected special termination benefits for a voluntary early retirement program offered to certain employees at USSK. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain coal seam gas interests and from the sale in June 2003 of our coal mines and related assets. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and recognition of certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Net interest and other financial costs Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(a) (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Net interest and other financial costs $ 72 $ 156 $ 167 Foreign currency losses (gains) 80 (36 ) (54 ) Adjustment from Gary property tax settlement (25 ) Adjustment related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes (38 ) (17 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 33 Total net interest and other financial costs $ 127 $ 115 $ 96 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Net interest and other financial costs in 2005 included a favorable adjustment of $25 million related to the Gary property tax settlement. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 also included a $33 million charge resulting from the early extinguishment of certain senior debt. Excluding these items, the $32 million increase in 2005 primarily reflected an unfavorable change in foreign currency effects. This was partially offset by lower debt levels resulting from the retirement of USSK long term debt in November 2004 and the redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004, higher interest income and lower interest on tax related liabilities. Excluding the previously identified items, the small increase in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected a smaller foreign currency gain, partially offset by higher interest income and 50 Table of Contents lower interest on tax related liabilities. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which was the functional currency of both prior to January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of our operations outside the United States was the U.S. dollar through December 31, 2005. As of January 1, 2006, the functional currency for USSK and USSB was changed from the U.S. dollar to the euro primarily because of significant changes in economic facts and circumstances as a result of Slovakias entry into the European Union and the subsequent entry of the Slovak koruna into the Exchange Rate Mechanizm II in preparation for Slovakias adoption of the euro. Other factors that contributed to this change are the evolution of USSE into an autonomous business segment, the settlement of its U.S. dollar denominated debt and the establishment of euro based debt facilities. This change in functional currency will be applied on a prospective basis. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2005 was $365 million, compared to $356 million in 2004 and a benefit of $452 million in 2003. The provision in 2005 included a charge of $37 million resulting from the $95 million pre tax gain from the Gary property tax settlement and a $16 million charge resulting from the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. During 2005, a current tax provision was booked for USSK because the provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 50 percent of its tax liability for years 2005 through 2009, compared to a 100 percent credit in previous years. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefit in 2003 included a favorable effect relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million. The tax provisions in all three years were primarily the result of pre tax results from domestic operations. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets of $472 million. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2005, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $14 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $81 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the cumulative losses experienced since the acquisition of USSB. If USSB generates sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $58 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2005 was $910 million, compared with $1,135 million in 2004 and with a net loss of $420 million in 2003. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2005 increased $480 million from year end 2004 primarily due to increased cash balances (see Cash Flows) and higher inventories, partially offset by a reduction in outstanding accounts receivable. The increase in inventories was mainly due to higher quantities of raw materials. The decrease in accounts receivables primarily resulted from lower sales in the fourth quarter of 2005, compared to the fourth quarter of 2004, due mainly to lower prices and shipment volumes for flat rolled products. 51 Table of Contents FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability was required for this plan. Consequently, entries were recorded that eliminated prepaid pensions, increased the intangible pension asset by $250 million and resulted in a net charge to equity of $1.37 billion, which increased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2005 increased $171 million from year end 2004 and long term deferred income tax liabilities were eliminated, primarily due to the establishment of federal and state deferred tax assets in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2005 increased $214 million from year end 2004 mainly due to the increase in short term debt and current maturities of long term debt, which primarily reflects amounts drawn against a one year revolving credit facility at USSK. The facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation of $300 million in foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities of $1,218 million in 2005 and $1,400 million in 2004 was more than adequate to cover investing and financing activities. In 2003, net cash provided from operating activities was $577 million, which was insufficient to cover the acquisitions of National and USSB. The shortfall was covered by the issuance of long term debt and preferred stock. Cash from operating activities was reduced by payments related to employee benefits as shown in the table below. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Employee Benefit Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ (130 ) $ (295 ) $ (16 ) OPEB payments not funded by trusts (213 ) (186 ) (60 ) Contributions to VEBA(a) (60 ) (30 ) Contributions to other OPEB trusts (22 ) (4 ) (19 ) Payments to multiemployer pension plans(b) (28 ) (50 )(c) Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts (24 ) (44 ) (15 ) Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ (477 ) $ (609 ) $ (110 ) (a) All were voluntary except for $10 million in 2005. (b) Primarily the Steelworkers Pension Trust. (c) Includes $11 million related to 2003 hours worked. 52 Table of Contents Capital expenditures were $741 million in 2005, $579 million in 2004 and $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $492 million in 2005 included spending for the major rebuild of the largest U. S. Steel blast furnace at Gary Works, for environmental projects at our iron ore operations and for coke oven thru wall repairs. European expenditures of $249 million included spending at USSK for air emission reduction projects for cokemaking and steelmaking facilities, for a new automotive galvanizing line, for construction of an air separation plant and for blast furnace upgrades; and spending at USSB for the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Domestic expenditures in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Tubular Operations and other smaller projects, the most significant of which were at Gary Works, Mon Valley Works and Minntac. European expenditures in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. 53 Table of Contents U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2005, totaled $82 million. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2005, was $53 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $156 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2005, leaving a balance of $1 million under this commitment. Capital expenditures for 2006 are expected to be approximately $700 million, reflecting approximately $440 million for domestic operations and $260 million for European operations. Domestic projects include the completion of the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace at Gary Works, acquisition of mobile, mining and other production equipment, and coke oven thru wall replacements at Clairton Works. We are also evaluating alternatives to add cokemaking capacity and to enhance energy recovery efficiency. Projects in Slovakia include continued spending for a new automotive galvanizing line, and continuing work on air emission reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include preparatory work for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace in 2007. The preceding statement concerning expected 2006 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2005 reflected amounts drawn against a USSK credit agreement that was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Common stock repurchased reflected cash utilized to repurchase 5.8 million shares of U. S. Steel common stock during 2005 in the open market. A U. S. Steel common stock repurchase program, which was announced during the third quarter of 2005, allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. On January 31, 2006, the Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004, which were used for the early redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004. This redemption is included in repayment of long term debt, which also reflects the retirement of long term USSK debt in November 2004. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock Series B Preferred Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2005 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.08 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2004 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2003 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 1.206 $ Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average market price for U. S. Steels common 54 Table of Contents stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Liquidity U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement to sell a revolving interest in eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries through a commercial paper conduit program with funding under the facility up to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. The Receivables Purchase Agreement expires on November 28, 2006. Qualifying accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. While the Receivables Purchase Agreement expires in November 2006, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed in the following paragraph and other debt obligations, any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 22, 2006. As of December 31, 2005, $500 million was available to be sold under this facility. U. S. Steel has a revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by a lien on our domestic inventory and receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement (Inventory Facility). The Inventory Facility contains restrictive covenants, many of which apply only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million, including a fixed charge coverage ratio test. In addition, a $100 million availability block may apply beginning May 1, 2008 until the 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes) are repaid, refinanced or defeased. Interest on borrowings is calculated based on either LIBOR or the agents prime rate using spreads based on facility availability as defined in the agreement. Although there were no amounts drawn against this facility at December 31, 2005, availability was $594 million due to $6 million of letters of credit issued against the facility. This facility expires in October 2009. At December 31, 2005, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. USSB was the sole obligor on a EUR 9.3 million committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility expired on September 27, 2005. On September 28, 2005, USSB entered into a new EUR 25 million facility (which approximated $30 million at December 31, 2005), which is secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods and expires September 28, 2008. At December 31, 2005, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. USSK is the sole obligor on a EUR 195 million revolving credit facility (which approximated $231 million at December 31, 2005) that expires in December 2006. The facility bears interest at EURIBOR plus 20 basis points. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on undrawn amounts. At December 31, 2005, this facility was fully drawn. This facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes, and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). 55 Table of Contents On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.5 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $114 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4 million during 2005, and does not expect any material changes in 2006. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2005, in the amount of $2 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as $556 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases and $41 million relating to certain operating leases, may be declared immediately due and payable. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2005: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents(a) $ 1,452 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 56 Amounts available under USSB credit facility 30 Total estimated liquidity(b) $ 2,632 (a) Excludes $27 million of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. (b) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U.S.Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (a) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U. S. Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (b) Excludes $27 million and $16 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity has increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. 57 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2005, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2006 2007through2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,613 $ 249 $ 394 $ 413 $ 557 Operating leases(b) 376 106 121 52 97 Capital commitments(c) 135 49 33 53 Environmental commitments(c) 145 26 119 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e) 29 51 (e) Other postretirement benefits (f) 225 530 500 (f) Total contractual obligations $ 2,269 (g) $ 684 $ 1,129 $ 965 $ 826 (g) (a) See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2006 through 2010 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2005, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $130 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $24 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in 2006. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $13 million to pension plans not funded by trusts in 2006. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension 58 Table of Contents plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust to be established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2005, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2006 2007through 2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 83 $ 75 $ $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 16 4 12 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 34 34 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 10 8 1 1 Contingent liabilities: Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 3,886 2,507 1,078 195 106 Total commercial commitments $ 4,179 $ 2,594 $ 1,079 $ 195 $ 311 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 19 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works co generation facility in the second quarter of 2006; therefore, the agreement for the supply of electric power (previously expiring in 2011) will be terminated. U. S. Steel has an off balance sheet arrangement for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. This operating lease arrangement is with a special purpose trust (Trust). The Trust financed the construction of the facility and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficiaries of the Trust. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of this entity and there is no assurance that U. S. Steel will purchase the facility at lease expiration. U. S. Steels transactions with the Trust are limited to the operating lease agreement, and the associated lease expense is included in cost of sales on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate this Trust because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. 59 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement resulted in an increase of approximately $45 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance in order to meet environmental standards as established from time to time by Slovak law. One current compliance project is a dedusting system 60 Table of Contents for Steel Shop No. 2 to meet air emission standards for particulates. These standards are applicable January 1, 2007 and USSK is attempting to complete the project by this deadline; however, project completion is currently anticipated for the first quarter 2007. Failure to meet the applicable deadline could result in the imposition of corrective measures by the Slovak Ministry of Environment (Ministry). While the United States has not ratified the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC), in order to provide EU member states a mechanism for fulfilling their Kyoto commitments, has established its own CO2 limits for every EU member state. In 2004, the EC approved a national allocation plan for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias originally proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent, and following that decision the Ministry imposed an 8 percent reduction to the amount of CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. Subsequently, USSK filed legal actions agains the EC and the Ministry challenging these reductions. In addition, USSK is evaluating a number of alternatives ranging from purchasing CO2 allowances to reducing steel production, and it is not currently possible to predict the impact of these decisions on USSK. However, the actual shortfall of allowances for the initial allocation period (2005 through 2007) will depend upon a number of internal and external variables and the effect of that shortfall on USSK cannot be predicted at this time. Based on the fair value of the anticipated shortfall of allowances related to production in 2005, a long term other liability of $4 million has been charged to income and recorded on the balance sheet. Domestically, while ratification of the Kyoto Protocol does not seem likely in the near term, there remains the possibility that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may impose limitations on greenhouse gases. The impact on U. S. Steels domestic operations cannot be estimated. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Domestic: Capital $ 66 $ 24 $ 8 Compliance Operating & maintenance 305 241 206 Remediation(b) 23 18 38 Total Domestic $ 394 $ 283 $ 252 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 97 $ 22 Compliance Operating & maintenance 12 8 10 Remediation(b) 3 3 3 Total USSE $ 82 $ 108 $ 35 Total U. S. Steel $ 476 $ 391 $ 287 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 18 percent of total capital expenditures in 2005, 21 percent in 2004 and 10 percent in 2003. Compliance expenditures represented 3 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2005, 2 percent in 2004 and 3 percent in 2003. Remediation spending during 2003 to 2005 was mainly related to remediation 61 Table of Contents activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2005, U. S. Steel accrued $49 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2005, was $145 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2006. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $113 million in 2006, $61 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2006 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $76 million in 2007, including $60 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. The Senate Judiciary Committee has recommended to the Senate legislation that, if enacted, would create an asbestos trust fund that would provide benefits to asbestos claimants funded by payments over 30 years of 62 Table of Contents $136 billion from companies and their insurers that have been involved in asbestos litigation, including U. S. Steel along with thousands of others. The legislation would provide an administrative system to process asbestos claims instead of resolution through judicial proceedings. The amount that a company would be required to pay under the current version of the legislation would depend upon its placement among several tiers and sub tiers, based upon corporate revenue and prior expenditures related to asbestos defense costs, settlements and judgments. Management estimates that if the legislation were adopted in the form proposed by the Judiciary Committee, the annual cost to U. S. Steel would be somewhat greater than the historical cost of asbestos defense and settlement. It is unclear whether any legislation will be adopted and any final legislation may be substantially different than the version recommended by the Judiciary Committee. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional detail concerning asbestos litigation, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. Outlook for 2006 The first quarter of 2006 looks positive for our domestic and European markets. Service center and end customer inventories are balanced and we expect continued strength in the energy markets served by our Tubular segment. For Flat rolled, first quarter 2006 shipments are expected to improve compared to the fourth quarter of 2005 due to the restart of the Gary No. 14 blast furnace, with prices at or above the fourth quarter level. We expect higher raw material costs to be largely offset by reduced energy and outage costs. For U. S. Steel Europe, first quarter shipments are expected to increase and average realized prices and costs should be consistent with fourth quarter levels. However, first quarter results will be negatively affected by production curtailments at Serbian operations as a result of natural gas supply disruptions and could also be negatively affected by potential job related actions by a labor union at USSB that is dissatisfied with the 2006 wage agreement, which became effective upon approval of the other unions. Shipments and average realized prices for the Tubular segment in the first quarter of 2006 are expected to be in line with the fourth quarter. First quarter 2006 results for Other Businesses should decline from the fourth quarter due primarily to normal seasonal variations at our iron ore operations in Minnesota. Total costs for pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately $300 million in 2006, compared to $390 million in 2005. Accounting Standards In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123R. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value 63 Table of Contents of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved a new rule that delayed the effective date of FAS 123R. Except for this deferral of the effective date, the guidance in FAS 123R is unchanged. Under the SECs rule, FAS 123R is now effective for U. S. Steel for annual rather than interim periods that begin after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply this Statement to all awards granted on or after January 1, 2006 and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after January 1, 2006 for the portion of outstanding awards for which requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for proforma disclosures. Currently, U. S. Steel expects that the effect of adopting this Statement on 2006 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $10 million. In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. This Interpretation clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists. U. S. Steel adopted the provisions of this Interpretation in the second quarter of 2005. There were no financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Interpretation. In May 2005, the FASB issued FAS 154, which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. FAS 154 eliminates the requirement to include the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle in the income statement and instead requires that changes in accounting principle be retroactively applied. FAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and correction of errors made on or after January 1, 2006, with early adoption permitted. U. S. Steel began applying the provisions of this statement in the fourth quarter of 2005. In February 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. This Statement resolves issues addressed in Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. D1, Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets, and is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect any financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Statement. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its market risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in income from operations. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain transactions, primarily related to forecasted natural gas purchases. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the natural gas purchase is settled. Once the purchase is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. 64 Table of Contents Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. U. S. Steel had no open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2005. Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in closing commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004 are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Assuming a Hypothetical PriceDecrease of: 2005 2004 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Incremental Decrease in Income Before Taxes: Zinc $ 2.9 $ 7.2 Natural Gas $ 1.8 $ 4.4 Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2005, may cause future pretax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $7 million in 2005, compared to gains of $4 million in 2004 and $1 million in 2003. These gains were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For carrying amount and fair value of derivative commodity instruments, see Note 26 to the Financial Statements. 65 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2005 and 2004 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 18 $ $ 7 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 1,568 $ 36 $ 1,419 $ 50 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2005, and 2004, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. (d) For additional information, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $36 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $23.1 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $61.6 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2005 euro forward rates would result in a $8.5 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 66 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains the necessary discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts its operations to be in compliance with such permits. For 20 Table of Contents additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 21,000 domestically and approximately 25,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in December 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Most employees at USSB are represented by three unions and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. On February 10, 2006, USSB and two of the three unions agreed to the hourly base earnings for 2006 and signed an annex to the collective bargaining agreement. As of the date of this filing, the largest labor union at USSB had not agreed to the negotiated 2006 hourly base earnings or signed the annex. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. 21 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income (loss) by reportable segments and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 6 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 60 and F 61. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is cyclical and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows general economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in various smaller geographic areas. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess world supply. This has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness, which have not been offset by commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. Rapidly growing demand and supply in China and other developing economies may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years steel consumption in China and other developing economies such as India has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by developing plans to rapidly increase steel production capability in these countries. Steel production, especially in China, has been expanding rapidly and could be well in excess of Chinese demand depending on continuing demand growth rates. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any significant Chinese capacity excess could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if excess production is exported to other markets. Increases in prices and limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. Steel producers require large amounts of raw materials iron ore or other iron containing material, steel scrap, coke and coal for integrated producers such as U. S. Steel, and scrap for mini mill producers. Both integrated and mini mill producers consume large amounts of energy. Over the last several years, prices for raw materials and energy, in particular natural gas, have increased significantly. In many cases these price increases have been a greater percentage than price increases for the sale of steel products. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in receiving sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner, resulting in production curtailments. These production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins and may continue to do so in the future. 22 Table of Contents Increased imports of steel products into the U.S. could negatively affect domestic steel prices and demand levels and reduce profitability of domestic producers. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 25 percent of the domestic steel market in 2005, 26 percent in 2004 and 19 percent in 2003. Foreign competitors typically have lower labor costs, and are often owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Import levels may also be impacted by decisions of government agencies under U.S. trade laws. Increases in future levels of imported steel could reduce future market prices and demand levels for domestic steel. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Domestic steel producers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the European Union and Japan are generally comparable to domestic standards, other nations have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to unplanned equipment failures. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Availability of supplies could also be affected by logistical disruptions (shortages of barges or rail cars). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. Risk Factors concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Many lawsuits have been filed against U. S. Steel involving asbestos related injuries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and cash flow. U. S. Steel is a defendant in a large number of cases in which approximately 8,400 claimants actively allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. Many of these cases involve multiple claimants (often hundreds or thousands) and defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred). It is possible that we may experience large judgments against us in the future that could have an impact upon the number of future claims filed against us and on the amount of future settlements, which would have an adverse impact on our profitability and cash flow. Our retiree employee health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans covering most of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 114,000 current retirees and beneficiaries are receiving pension and or medical benefits. U. S. Steels underfunded benefit obligations for retiree medical and life insurance were $2.3 billion at year end 2005. Most of these underfunded obligations are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Other postretirement benefit expense is expected to be approximately $111 million in 2006. 23 Table of Contents Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Several domestic competitors provide defined contribution health care plans with contributions increased based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. Our defined benefit pension plan costs are higher than those of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We have noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering many of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. The funded status of these plans declined from an overfunded position of $1.2 billion at year end 2001 to an underfunded position of $606 million at year end 2005. Minimum contributions to these plans is controlled under ERISA and other government regulations and substantial cash contributions may be required. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Pension benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Most domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit pension plans, but may provide defined contribution pension plans with contributions increasing based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our profitability and cash flow. U. S. Steel is currently involved in approximately 60 remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to third parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Numerous domestic competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Domestic competitors that have obtained relief under the Bankruptcy Code may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors applicable to U. S. Steel The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Under the terms of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due 2008 and our 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010 (collectively, the Senior Notes), we are not able to pay dividends on capital stock unless we meet certain restricted payment tests. The terms of our indebtedness and our accounts receivable program contain restrictive provisions that may limit our flexibility. We have Senior Notes outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $726 million as of December 31, 2005. The Senior Notes impose significant restrictions on us such as limits on additional borrowings and certain investments and the use of funds from asset sales. Our $600 million revolving credit agreement secured by inventory prohibits us from selling certain principal properties and imposes additional restrictions if the amount available to be borrowed under that agreement is less than $100 million. Such restrictions include maintaining a fixed charge coverage ratio and limitations on capital expenditures and investments. The Senior Notes, the revolving credit agreement and some of our other loan facilities and leases have provisions that may cause a default under one of these agreements to become a default under the others. These covenants may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 24 Table of Contents Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. Any downgrade in our credit ratings would make raising capital more difficult, would increase the cost of future borrowings and would affect the terms on which we purchase goods and services. In addition, the fees payable under our receivables sales program would increase and the amount of receivables eligible for sale could be reduced. Change in control clauses may require us to immediately purchase or repay debt. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, inventory facility and various other loan documents, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately purchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. We may not have the financial resources to make these purchases and repayments, and a failure to purchase or repay such indebtedness would trigger cross acceleration clauses under the Senior Notes and other indebtedness. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to realize. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net federal, foreign and state deferred tax assets of $486 million. Although management believes that it is more likely than not that future operating results and tax planning strategies generating sufficient future taxable income can be utilized to realize the net deferred tax assets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate such results or implement these strategies. Our international operations expose us to uncertainties and risks from abroad, which could negatively affect our results of operations. USSK, located in the Slovak Republic, and USSB, located in Serbia, constitute nearly 28% of our total raw steel production capability, and accounted for 24% of net sales for 2005. Both USSK and USSB are subject to economic conditions and political factors in Europe, which if changed could negatively affect their results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSK and USSB are also subject to foreign currency exchange risks. Any future international acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Natural gas supplies to USSB may be curtailed and such curtailments would have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. USSB is dependent upon availability of natural gas in Serbia, which is dependent upon a single pipeline. Serbia has experienced major curtailments during periods of peak demand in Eastern Europe. Such curtailments have forced USSB to interrupt steel production and finishing operations in the past and this could recur in the future. The carbon dioxide emission limits established by the European Commission may limit the amount of steel that can be produced at USSK and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. The European Commission (EC) has established carbon dioxide (CO2) emission limits for EU member countries. Under this program the Slovak Ministry of the Environment has reduced the amount of CO2 that USSK may emit. USSK may be required to reduce its production or purchase emission credits, either of which may have a negative impact on income and cash flow. Our business requires substantial debt service, contingent obligations, capital investment, operating lease, capital commitments and maintenance expenditures that we may be unable to fulfill. With approximately $1.6 billion of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2005, we have substantial debt service requirements. Interest and other financial costs, excluding foreign currency losses, interest income, capitalized 25 Table of Contents interest and the adjustment from the Gary property tax settlement, totaled $124 million in 2005 and are expected to be about the same in 2006; however, interest and other financial costs will change with changes to our capital structure. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2005, total capital expenditures were $2.2 billion. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program over a period commencing with the acquisition date and ending on December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2005, the remaining commitment under this program was $53 million. At December 31, 2005, our domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $82 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $376 million under operating leases. In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, raw steel and steel finishing production facilities, including periodic relines or rebuilds of our seventeen blast furnaces. As of December 31, 2005, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $133 million, guarantees of approximately $10 million of indebtedness for unconsolidated entities and contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements of approximately $3.9 billion, plus contingencies under the sale of our mining assets of approximately $79 million. As the general partner of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P., we are obligated to fund cash shortfalls incurred by that partnership but may withdraw as the general partner if we are required to fund in excess of $150 million in operating cash shortfalls. As of December 31, 2005, we were also contingently liable for $2 million of debt and other obligations of Marathon. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. U. S. Steels insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insurance retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. The collective bargaining agreement with the USWA contains provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USWA, grants the USWA a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the collective bargaining agreement and requires us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities. That agreement also restricts our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further requires that the ratio of non USWA employees to USWA employees at our domestic facilities not exceed 1 to 5. Strikes, work stoppages and customer concern about the possibility of strikes, particularly upon the expiration of our major domestic collective bargaining agreement, could adversely impact our relationships with our customers which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, mini mill producers and certain foreign competitors and producers of comparable products do not have unionized work forces. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USWA, foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. U. S. Steel is involved in multiemployer plans covering pensions and other postretirement benefit costs. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of these plans, which will have a negative effect on our cash flows. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of these plans. 26 Table of Contents U. S. Steel is subject to work stoppages as a result of periodic labor negotiations at facilities in Europe. Most employees at USSK and USSB are represented by unions pursuant to agreements that expire in December 2007 and November 2006, respectively, both of which are subject to annual wage rate negotiations. Any strike or work stoppage upon expiration of the current agreements or as a result of the inability to agree on annual wage rates could have significant negative effects on results of operations. Customer payment defaults could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries and could experience financial difficulties in times of economic downturn. In some cases, these difficulties may result in bankruptcy filings or cessation of operations. If customers experiencing financial problems default on paying amounts owed to us, we may not be able to collect these amounts or recognize expected revenue. Any material payment defaults by our customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with acquisitions. The success of recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions will depend substantially on our ability to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Recent acquisitions in the steel industry have involved prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our recent acquisitions. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy ProcessingCompany(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(b) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003 and our joint ventures, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 28 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007. In 2005, U. S. Steel made an irrevocable decision to purchase the electrolytic galvanizing facility at lease expiration. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works cogeneration facility in the second quarter of 2006. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 150 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 29 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. In 2005, approximately 42 percent of the cases filed against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed (jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000). Approximately 33 percent did not specify any damages at all, approximately 25 percent alleged damages of $1 million and less than half of one percent alleged damages exceeding $10 million. Historically, over 90 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. During 2005, U. S. Steel paid approximately $11 million in settlements. These settlements, along with review of case docket information for certain states and voluntary and involuntary dismissals, resulted in the disposition of approximately 3,800 claims. New case filings added approximately 1,200 claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse 30 Table of Contents effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 14 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2005, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 17 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 7 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 8 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $6.8 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named 31 Table of Contents Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/Feasibility Study (FS). The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project is not presently determinable. U. S. Steels share of the costs for this project will depend upon EPAs selection of an alternative from the range of alternatives presented in the FS and the number of PRPs available to allocate the costs. U. S. Steel anticipates that more PRPs may be added to the group by EPA before the costs of remediation are allocated. U. S. Steel has an accrual of $1.0 million for this site. In addition, there are 12 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 43 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 5 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 16 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 9 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $10 million at one site, in excess of $15 million at two sites and in excess of $25 million at one site. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. As of December 31, 2005, project costs have amounted to $52.5 million. U. S. Steel anticipates doing additional dredging at a cost of $8.4 million. U. S. Steel is presently in discussions with the dredging contractor and intends to meet with EPA in an effort to reduce the anticipated cost of this work. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $1.3 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property with total costs estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel paid its entire share of the assessment costs and $4.5 million of its share of the restoration costs to the public trustees in 2005. A balance of $16 million in restoration costs remains to be paid by U. S. Steel to complete its settlement obligations. 32 Table of Contents On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA and reports of field investigation findings have been submitted to EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans have been submitted to EPA for approval. Three self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $21.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations for the submitted work plans is estimated to be $2.8 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to 2002. On December 27, 2005, IDEM issued a NOV which includes alleged violations at the No. 8 Blast Furnace and the Coke Batteries for the period of 2002 through 2005. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a solid waste management unit (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After its acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel intends to submit a remediation alternative to IDEM recommending an in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.1 million. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $452,000. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects (SEPs) at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved and field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel submitted a Phase I RFI Report to ADEM in February 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $102,000. In addition, U. S. Steel has developed a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $418,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $338,000. 33 Table of Contents Lorain Tubular Operations In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe) with steelmaking, bar producing and tubular operations in Lorain, Ohio, was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Tubular Operations. U. S. Steel and EPA entered into a consent decree that resolved all issues related to U. S. Steels operations. The Consent Decree was filed with the U. S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio Eastern Division (United States of America and State of Ohio v. United States Steel Corporation), where it was entered November 29, 2005. In December 2005, U. S. Steel paid cash penalties totaling $100,025. Also in December 2005, U. S. Steel conducted a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. In addition, U. S. Steel has agreed to perform a SEP to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Issues related to the company that retained the steelmaking and bar producing facilities were resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works Effective February 14, 2005, U. S. Steel entered into a consent order with Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) related to Great Lakes Works that included the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace, which has been completed; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the steel producing facilities; a civil penalty of $950,000, which has been paid; and a SEP at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Various construction projects are underway at the steel producing facilities to improve emission capture and control. These projects are proceeding in compliance with the consent order schedule. Construction for the riverbank restoration SEP was completed in September 2005. On January 6, 2006, Great Lakes Works received a proposed administrative consent order (Order) from the MDEQ that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the facility. The Order identifies certain corrective actions desired by MDEQ to address the alleged violations and anticipates an undisclosed penalty amount. Great Lakes Works had previously initiated work on some of these actions and completed others. Costs to complete the remaining corrective actions requested by MDEQ are presently not determinable. One of the corrective actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has undertaken a project to remove historic basin sediments from these areas. $800,000 has been spent on the project as of December 31, 2005. Costs to complete the river basin project are estimated to be $1.2 million. Great Lakes Works intends to negotiate a settlement of this matter with MDEQ in 2006. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $13.0 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through June 30, 2005. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $385,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. Granite City Granite City Works received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004 for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occur when coke is pushed out of the ovens for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). The IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. The case is anticipated to be resolved by entering into a Consent Order in early 2006, which will include a revised pushing compliance plan and a penalty. IEPA has proposed a civil penalty of $175,000. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. 34 Table of Contents Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by Utah Department of Environmental Quality. In December 2005, a third party purchased the Geneva site and assumed Geneva Steel Companys rights and obligations under the asset sales agreement and the permit pursuant to a bankruptcy court order. U. S. Steel has reviewed environmental data concerning the site gathered by itself and third parties, has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations and has begun remediation on some areas of the site for which U. S. Steel has responsibility. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of remediation and post closure care of three hazardous waste impoundments to be $29.4 million. Other In February 2005, U. S. Steels lease for a third party to mine slag at the Gascola slag disposal site in Penn Hills, Pennsylvania was terminated. Current mining regulations require closure of the site. The cost to close the slag disposal site is estimated to be $2.8 million. This work will include contour of the highwalls and vegetative cover for the entire site. In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The Order allocated responsibility for remediation costs among U. S. Steel and two other parties. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $788,000, based on the agreed allocation factor of 26 percent. U. S. Steel is preparing a Remedial Action Plan (RAP) for the site for submittal to the North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural Resources (NCDENR) that will propose limited soil removal and monitored natural attenuation for groundwater beneath the site. The RAP is due to the NCDENR in April 2006. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its 50 percent share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.8 million. In 2005, KDHE and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service asserted a claim against U. S. Steel and SSB for natural resource damages at the site and nearby creek. The parties have agreed to settlement of this claim for a cash payment and U. S. Steels share is $247,875. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2006, are as follows: John J. Connelly 59 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 57 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer Gretchen R. Haggerty 50 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer David H. Lohr 52 Senior Vice PresidentEuropean Operations & President U. S. Steel Kosice Dan D. Sandman 57 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 56 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 58 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 51 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 35 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 57. As of January 31, 2006, there were 27,427 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment, and increased to $.10 per share effective with the June 2005 payment. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average closing price for U. S. Steels common stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of common shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2005, no unregistered shares were issued. 36 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table contains information about purchases by U. S. Steel of its equity securities during the period covered by this report. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased Average Price Paid per Share Total NumberOf SharesPurchased asPart ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans orPrograms Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under thePlans or Programs January 1 31, 2005 February 1 28, 2005 March 1 31, 2005 Quarter ended March 31, 2005 April 1 30, 2005 May 1 31, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 June 1 30, 2005 Quarter ended June 30, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 July 1 31, 2005 August 1 31, 2005 910,000 $ 42.04 910,000 7,090,000 September 1 30, 2005 300,000 $ 44.27 300,000 6,790,000 Quarter ended September 30, 2005 1,210,000 $ 42.59 1,210,000 6,790,000 October 1 31, 2005 200,000 $ 36.30 200,000 6,590,000 November 1 30, 2005 2,410,000 $ 40.15 2,410,000 4,180,000 December 1 31, 2005 2,000,000 $ 48.90 2,000,000 2,180,000 Quarter ended December 31, 2005 4,610,000 $ 43.78 4,610,000 2,180,000 With the exception of the shares repurchased in May 2005, the above shares were purchased pursuant to the U. S. Steel Common Stock Repurchase Program, which was announced on July 26, 2005 and allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. The above purchases were all made in the open market. On January 31, 2006, U. S. Steel announced the replacement of this repurchase program with a new program having the authority to purchase up to eight million shares of its common stock. It is expected that the purchases will be made from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions. The timing of such purchases will be determined by the company based upon a number of factors including the market price of United States Steel Corporation common stock; the availability and pursuit of strategic initiatives including investment and acquisition opportunities; operating cash flow and internal capital requirements; and general economic conditions in the United States and Europe. Of the shares repurchased in May 2005, 48,638 were purchased pursuant to the exercise by Non Officer Restricted Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan, and the remainder were purchased pursuant to the exercise by 2002 Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan. 37 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) Adjusted(a) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001(b) Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(c) $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 $ 6,949 $ 6,286 Income (loss) from operations(d) 1,439 1,625 (719 ) 123 (404 ) Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(d) 910 1,121 (363 ) 81 (211 ) Net income (loss)(d) $ 910 $ 1,135 $ (420 ) $ 81 $ (211 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) basic $ 7.87 $ 9.87 $ (3.67 ) $ 0.83 $ (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.72 (3.67 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Net income (loss)(e) basic 7.87 10.00 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.83 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Dividends paid(f) 0.38 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.55 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 9,822 $ 11,064 $ 7,897 $ 7,991 $ 8,332 Capitalization: Debt(g) $ 1,612 $ 1,371 $ 1,933 $ 1,434 $ 1,466 Stockholders equity 3,324 4,074 1,151 2,042 2,501 Total capitalization $ 4,936 $ 5,445 $ 3,084 $ 3,476 $ 3,967 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements and the Five Year Financial Summary. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation. On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The income statement for the year ended December 31, 2001 represents a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the sale of the mining assets, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. The increase in net sales from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of a $104 million impairment of receivables that was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected restructuring charges, higher pension and OPEB costs and increased compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. (e) See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (f) For year 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (g) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2002 to 2003 was mainly due to the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May 2003. 38 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the seventh largest steel producer in the world and the second largest integrated steel producer in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to implement our strategy to continue to increase our value added product mix; to expand our global business platform; to improve our capital structure and strengthen our balance sheet; to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets. In Europe, U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing European markets, and to invest in value added facilities, including an automotive hot dip galvanizing line that is currently under construction. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the sustainability of higher steel prices; the cost of purchased raw materials and energy; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has resulted in volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States in 2005 were lower than 2004 levels. Import levels may increase in 2006 depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, consumption in the United States versus other regions and foreign production levels. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on 39 Table of Contents historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2006. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting these rates, we utilize several Merrill Lynch Average AAA/AA Corporate Bond indexes and both the 30 year and the 10 year U. S. Treasury bond rates as a preliminary indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 5.75 percent to 5.50 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2006 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most non union benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2006. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $159 million in 2006. Total OPEB costs in 2006 are expected to be approximately $111 million. 40 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 1/2 percent change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and OPEB calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) (1/2%) 1/2% Expected return on plan assets Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension costs for 2006 $ 34 $ (34 ) Discount rate Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension & OPEB costs for 2006 $ 16 $ (17 ) Pension & OPEB liabilities at December 31, 2005 $ 430 $ (470 ) Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected OPEB costs for 2006 $ (8 ) $ 9 Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of its net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends, without regard to the one time repatriation in 2005, to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2005, net of the $300 million repatriation, amounted to approximately $1,276 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $400 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of 41 Table of Contents remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2005, total accruals for environmental remediation were $145 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. Change in Accounting Method During the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel changed its method of determining the cost of USSK inventories from the last in, first out (LIFO) method to the first in, first out (FIFO) method. Management considers the FIFO method to be preferable to the LIFO method for USSK because it creates consistency of the valuation method used for inventories within the USSE reportable segment and provides for comparability of the USSE segment with major international competitors. In accordance with FAS No. 154, prior period results have been adjusted to apply the new method retrospectively. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Segments During 2005, U. S. Steel had three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve domestic customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), container, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil Company LLC and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G Coatings Company L.P., which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with the former owner of USSB. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the USSB acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service center, appliance, container, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services and the management and development of real estate. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota and Delray Connecting Railroad Company, which were acquired from National. Prior to the sale on June 30, 2003 of U. S. Steels coal mines and related assets, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer values of steel rounds and bands supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs and may be adjusted quarterly if actual production costs warrant. For further information, see Note 6 to the Financial Statements. 42 Table of Contents Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales of U. S. Steel by segment for each of the last three years: (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2005 2004 2003(a) Flat rolled(b)(c) $ 8,813 $ 9,827 $ 6,401 USSE 3,336 2,839 1,817 Tubular 1,546 941 573 Straightline(c) 138 Total sales from reportable segments 13,695 13,607 8,929 Other Businesses(d) 344 368 399 Net sales $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Includes net sales from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. (d) Includes net sales from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business, and from the sale of coal prior to June 30, 2003, when U. S. Steel sold its coal mining business. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2005 versus Year Ended December 31, 2004 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 14 % 6 % 0 % 0 % 2 % 10 % USSE 2 % 14 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 6 % 52 % 5 % 0 % 1 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects 43 Table of Contents Total net sales in 2005 increased by $64 million compared to 2004. Sales for the Flat rolled segment were down 10 percent as the increases in Flat rolled average steel prices (up $43 per ton) were more than offset by lower sheet shipment volumes and lower trade shipments of coke. Sales for USSE increased by 18 percent mainly as a result of higher average steel prices (up $81 per ton). Tubular sales were up significantly due primarily to higher average prices (up $463 per ton), as well as increased shipment volumes and an improved product mix. Year Ended December 31, 2004 versus Year Ended December 31, 2003 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 12 % 34 % 4 % 0 % 4 % 54 % USSE 2 % 28 % 11 % 7 % 8 % 56 % Tubular 23 % 42 % 2 % 0 % 3 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects Total net sales in 2004 increased $4,647 million compared to 2003. Sales for the Flat rolled segment increased 54 percent mainly as a result of higher average realized prices (up $152 per ton), higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products; and higher sales on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill. Sales for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. USSE sales were up 56 percent mainly due to higher average realized prices (up $171 per ton), favorable changes in product mix and favorable foreign currency exchange rate effects. Sales for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. The 64 percent increase for Tubular was primarily due to higher average realized prices (up $233 per ton) and shipment volumes. Operating expenses Profit based union payments Results for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 included costs related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. All of these costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 % Change Allocated to segment results $ 115 $ 131 12 % Retiree benefit expenses 100 110 9 % Total $ 215 $ 241 11 % Payment amounts per the agreement with the USWA are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) to be contributed to the National Benefit Trust, the purpose of which (when established) is to assist National retirees with healthcare costs, based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item were calculated and recorded through the income statement in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. 44 Table of Contents Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $280 million in 2005, compared to $254 million in 2004 and $556 million in 2003. The costs in 2005, 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $23 million, $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The increase from 2004 to 2005 mainly reflected a lower asset base, which resulted in a higher amortization of net actuarial losses and a lower return on plan assets. Excluding the settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $109 million in 2005, $106 million in 2004 and $241 million in 2003. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $19 million in 2005, $18 million in 2004 and $15 million in 2003. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $698 million in 2005, compared to $739 million in 2004. The decline primarly reflected lower expenses for stock based and executive compensation, partially offset by higher pension costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower stock based compensation and lower OPEB costs. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for further details. 45 Table of Contents Income (loss) from operations:(a) Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(b) (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 Flat rolled(c) $ 602 $ 1,185 $ (54 ) USSE 502 439 214 Tubular 528 197 (25 ) Straightline(c) (70 ) Total income from reportable segments 1,632 1,821 65 Other Businesses 43 58 15 Segment income from operations $ 1,675 $ 1,879 $ 80 Retiree benefit expenses (267 ) (257 ) (107 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain 70 Stock appreciation rights 1 (23 ) (75 ) Workforce reduction charges (20 ) (17 ) (621 ) Environmental remediation at previously sold facility (20 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Asset impairments (57 ) Litigation items (25 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,439 $ 1,625 $ (719 ) (a) See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. (b) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. 46 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled segment income in 2005 declined by $583 million compared to 2004. The decrease primarily resulted from lower steel and commercial coke shipment volumes and higher costs for raw materials, outages, energy and labor. These were partially offset by increased prices for flat rolled products and higher transfer values for steel rounds supplied to Tubular. During 2005, the cost to produce tube rounds has increased dramatically and the transfer price for tube rounds supplied to Tubular, which had been established at the beginning of 2005 based on projected costs, was increased by $53 per ton effective April 1, 2005, by an additional $20 per ton effective July 1, 2005, and by an additional $46 per ton effective October 1, 2005. Capability utilization in 2005 was adversely affected by the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace as well as lower demand levels early in the year as a result of high service center and end customer inventory levels. Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. 47 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income of $502 million for 2005 increased by $63 million from 2004 due mainly to higher prices, partially offset by increased raw material and outage costs. USSE segment income for 2004 was $439 million, compared to income of $214 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. Capability utilization declined in 2003 and 2004 primarily due to the inclusion of USSB as one of its two blast furnaces was not operational until the third quarter of 2005. Capability utilization was also adversely affected in 2005 by the rebuild of our largest European blast furnace in Slovakia and in 2004 by operational difficulties with a blast furnace early in the year. 48 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular Tubular segment income of $528 million in 2005 reflected an improvement of $331 million compared to 2004. The increase resulted mainly from higher prices, partially offset by higher costs for steel rounds as discussed in Segment results for Flat rolled. Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of steel rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which were transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. Results for Other Businesses The decline in income from Other Businesses from $58 million in 2004 to $43 million in 2005 was mainly due to lower results at iron ore pellet operations due to lower trade sales and increased costs for natural gas, partially offset by higher intersegment sales and by improved results for real estate activities and transportation services. Other Businesses recorded income of $58 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services, partially offset by lower results for real estate activities. Items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain of $70 million in 2005 resulted from a personal property tax settlement with the city of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana (Gary property tax settlement) and reflected the reversal of accruals in excess of the settlement amount of $44 million. 49 Table of Contents Stock appreciation rights resulted in a credit to compensation expense of $1 million in 2005 and charges of $23 million and $75 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued from 1995 through 2003 and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. Workforce reduction charges of $20 million in 2005 reflected special termination benefits for a voluntary early retirement program offered to certain employees at USSK. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain coal seam gas interests and from the sale in June 2003 of our coal mines and related assets. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and recognition of certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Net interest and other financial costs Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(a) (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Net interest and other financial costs $ 72 $ 156 $ 167 Foreign currency losses (gains) 80 (36 ) (54 ) Adjustment from Gary property tax settlement (25 ) Adjustment related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes (38 ) (17 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 33 Total net interest and other financial costs $ 127 $ 115 $ 96 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Net interest and other financial costs in 2005 included a favorable adjustment of $25 million related to the Gary property tax settlement. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 also included a $33 million charge resulting from the early extinguishment of certain senior debt. Excluding these items, the $32 million increase in 2005 primarily reflected an unfavorable change in foreign currency effects. This was partially offset by lower debt levels resulting from the retirement of USSK long term debt in November 2004 and the redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004, higher interest income and lower interest on tax related liabilities. Excluding the previously identified items, the small increase in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected a smaller foreign currency gain, partially offset by higher interest income and 50 Table of Contents lower interest on tax related liabilities. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which was the functional currency of both prior to January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of our operations outside the United States was the U.S. dollar through December 31, 2005. As of January 1, 2006, the functional currency for USSK and USSB was changed from the U.S. dollar to the euro primarily because of significant changes in economic facts and circumstances as a result of Slovakias entry into the European Union and the subsequent entry of the Slovak koruna into the Exchange Rate Mechanizm II in preparation for Slovakias adoption of the euro. Other factors that contributed to this change are the evolution of USSE into an autonomous business segment, the settlement of its U.S. dollar denominated debt and the establishment of euro based debt facilities. This change in functional currency will be applied on a prospective basis. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2005 was $365 million, compared to $356 million in 2004 and a benefit of $452 million in 2003. The provision in 2005 included a charge of $37 million resulting from the $95 million pre tax gain from the Gary property tax settlement and a $16 million charge resulting from the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. During 2005, a current tax provision was booked for USSK because the provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 50 percent of its tax liability for years 2005 through 2009, compared to a 100 percent credit in previous years. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefit in 2003 included a favorable effect relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million. The tax provisions in all three years were primarily the result of pre tax results from domestic operations. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets of $472 million. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2005, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $14 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $81 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the cumulative losses experienced since the acquisition of USSB. If USSB generates sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $58 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2005 was $910 million, compared with $1,135 million in 2004 and with a net loss of $420 million in 2003. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2005 increased $480 million from year end 2004 primarily due to increased cash balances (see Cash Flows) and higher inventories, partially offset by a reduction in outstanding accounts receivable. The increase in inventories was mainly due to higher quantities of raw materials. The decrease in accounts receivables primarily resulted from lower sales in the fourth quarter of 2005, compared to the fourth quarter of 2004, due mainly to lower prices and shipment volumes for flat rolled products. 51 Table of Contents FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability was required for this plan. Consequently, entries were recorded that eliminated prepaid pensions, increased the intangible pension asset by $250 million and resulted in a net charge to equity of $1.37 billion, which increased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2005 increased $171 million from year end 2004 and long term deferred income tax liabilities were eliminated, primarily due to the establishment of federal and state deferred tax assets in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2005 increased $214 million from year end 2004 mainly due to the increase in short term debt and current maturities of long term debt, which primarily reflects amounts drawn against a one year revolving credit facility at USSK. The facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation of $300 million in foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities of $1,218 million in 2005 and $1,400 million in 2004 was more than adequate to cover investing and financing activities. In 2003, net cash provided from operating activities was $577 million, which was insufficient to cover the acquisitions of National and USSB. The shortfall was covered by the issuance of long term debt and preferred stock. Cash from operating activities was reduced by payments related to employee benefits as shown in the table below. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Employee Benefit Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ (130 ) $ (295 ) $ (16 ) OPEB payments not funded by trusts (213 ) (186 ) (60 ) Contributions to VEBA(a) (60 ) (30 ) Contributions to other OPEB trusts (22 ) (4 ) (19 ) Payments to multiemployer pension plans(b) (28 ) (50 )(c) Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts (24 ) (44 ) (15 ) Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ (477 ) $ (609 ) $ (110 ) (a) All were voluntary except for $10 million in 2005. (b) Primarily the Steelworkers Pension Trust. (c) Includes $11 million related to 2003 hours worked. 52 Table of Contents Capital expenditures were $741 million in 2005, $579 million in 2004 and $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $492 million in 2005 included spending for the major rebuild of the largest U. S. Steel blast furnace at Gary Works, for environmental projects at our iron ore operations and for coke oven thru wall repairs. European expenditures of $249 million included spending at USSK for air emission reduction projects for cokemaking and steelmaking facilities, for a new automotive galvanizing line, for construction of an air separation plant and for blast furnace upgrades; and spending at USSB for the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Domestic expenditures in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Tubular Operations and other smaller projects, the most significant of which were at Gary Works, Mon Valley Works and Minntac. European expenditures in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. 53 Table of Contents U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2005, totaled $82 million. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2005, was $53 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $156 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2005, leaving a balance of $1 million under this commitment. Capital expenditures for 2006 are expected to be approximately $700 million, reflecting approximately $440 million for domestic operations and $260 million for European operations. Domestic projects include the completion of the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace at Gary Works, acquisition of mobile, mining and other production equipment, and coke oven thru wall replacements at Clairton Works. We are also evaluating alternatives to add cokemaking capacity and to enhance energy recovery efficiency. Projects in Slovakia include continued spending for a new automotive galvanizing line, and continuing work on air emission reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include preparatory work for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace in 2007. The preceding statement concerning expected 2006 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2005 reflected amounts drawn against a USSK credit agreement that was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Common stock repurchased reflected cash utilized to repurchase 5.8 million shares of U. S. Steel common stock during 2005 in the open market. A U. S. Steel common stock repurchase program, which was announced during the third quarter of 2005, allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. On January 31, 2006, the Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004, which were used for the early redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004. This redemption is included in repayment of long term debt, which also reflects the retirement of long term USSK debt in November 2004. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock Series B Preferred Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2005 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.08 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2004 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2003 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 1.206 $ Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average market price for U. S. Steels common 54 Table of Contents stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Liquidity U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement to sell a revolving interest in eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries through a commercial paper conduit program with funding under the facility up to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. The Receivables Purchase Agreement expires on November 28, 2006. Qualifying accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. While the Receivables Purchase Agreement expires in November 2006, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed in the following paragraph and other debt obligations, any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 22, 2006. As of December 31, 2005, $500 million was available to be sold under this facility. U. S. Steel has a revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by a lien on our domestic inventory and receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement (Inventory Facility). The Inventory Facility contains restrictive covenants, many of which apply only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million, including a fixed charge coverage ratio test. In addition, a $100 million availability block may apply beginning May 1, 2008 until the 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes) are repaid, refinanced or defeased. Interest on borrowings is calculated based on either LIBOR or the agents prime rate using spreads based on facility availability as defined in the agreement. Although there were no amounts drawn against this facility at December 31, 2005, availability was $594 million due to $6 million of letters of credit issued against the facility. This facility expires in October 2009. At December 31, 2005, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. USSB was the sole obligor on a EUR 9.3 million committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility expired on September 27, 2005. On September 28, 2005, USSB entered into a new EUR 25 million facility (which approximated $30 million at December 31, 2005), which is secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods and expires September 28, 2008. At December 31, 2005, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. USSK is the sole obligor on a EUR 195 million revolving credit facility (which approximated $231 million at December 31, 2005) that expires in December 2006. The facility bears interest at EURIBOR plus 20 basis points. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on undrawn amounts. At December 31, 2005, this facility was fully drawn. This facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes, and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). 55 Table of Contents On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.5 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $114 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4 million during 2005, and does not expect any material changes in 2006. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2005, in the amount of $2 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as $556 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases and $41 million relating to certain operating leases, may be declared immediately due and payable. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2005: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents(a) $ 1,452 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 56 Amounts available under USSB credit facility 30 Total estimated liquidity(b) $ 2,632 (a) Excludes $27 million of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. (b) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U.S.Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (a) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U. S. Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (b) Excludes $27 million and $16 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity has increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. 57 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2005, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2006 2007through2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,613 $ 249 $ 394 $ 413 $ 557 Operating leases(b) 376 106 121 52 97 Capital commitments(c) 135 49 33 53 Environmental commitments(c) 145 26 119 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e) 29 51 (e) Other postretirement benefits (f) 225 530 500 (f) Total contractual obligations $ 2,269 (g) $ 684 $ 1,129 $ 965 $ 826 (g) (a) See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2006 through 2010 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2005, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $130 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $24 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in 2006. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $13 million to pension plans not funded by trusts in 2006. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension 58 Table of Contents plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust to be established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2005, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2006 2007through 2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 83 $ 75 $ $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 16 4 12 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 34 34 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 10 8 1 1 Contingent liabilities: Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 3,886 2,507 1,078 195 106 Total commercial commitments $ 4,179 $ 2,594 $ 1,079 $ 195 $ 311 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 19 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works co generation facility in the second quarter of 2006; therefore, the agreement for the supply of electric power (previously expiring in 2011) will be terminated. U. S. Steel has an off balance sheet arrangement for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. This operating lease arrangement is with a special purpose trust (Trust). The Trust financed the construction of the facility and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficiaries of the Trust. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of this entity and there is no assurance that U. S. Steel will purchase the facility at lease expiration. U. S. Steels transactions with the Trust are limited to the operating lease agreement, and the associated lease expense is included in cost of sales on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate this Trust because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. 59 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement resulted in an increase of approximately $45 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance in order to meet environmental standards as established from time to time by Slovak law. One current compliance project is a dedusting system 60 Table of Contents for Steel Shop No. 2 to meet air emission standards for particulates. These standards are applicable January 1, 2007 and USSK is attempting to complete the project by this deadline; however, project completion is currently anticipated for the first quarter 2007. Failure to meet the applicable deadline could result in the imposition of corrective measures by the Slovak Ministry of Environment (Ministry). While the United States has not ratified the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC), in order to provide EU member states a mechanism for fulfilling their Kyoto commitments, has established its own CO2 limits for every EU member state. In 2004, the EC approved a national allocation plan for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias originally proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent, and following that decision the Ministry imposed an 8 percent reduction to the amount of CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. Subsequently, USSK filed legal actions agains the EC and the Ministry challenging these reductions. In addition, USSK is evaluating a number of alternatives ranging from purchasing CO2 allowances to reducing steel production, and it is not currently possible to predict the impact of these decisions on USSK. However, the actual shortfall of allowances for the initial allocation period (2005 through 2007) will depend upon a number of internal and external variables and the effect of that shortfall on USSK cannot be predicted at this time. Based on the fair value of the anticipated shortfall of allowances related to production in 2005, a long term other liability of $4 million has been charged to income and recorded on the balance sheet. Domestically, while ratification of the Kyoto Protocol does not seem likely in the near term, there remains the possibility that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may impose limitations on greenhouse gases. The impact on U. S. Steels domestic operations cannot be estimated. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Domestic: Capital $ 66 $ 24 $ 8 Compliance Operating & maintenance 305 241 206 Remediation(b) 23 18 38 Total Domestic $ 394 $ 283 $ 252 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 97 $ 22 Compliance Operating & maintenance 12 8 10 Remediation(b) 3 3 3 Total USSE $ 82 $ 108 $ 35 Total U. S. Steel $ 476 $ 391 $ 287 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 18 percent of total capital expenditures in 2005, 21 percent in 2004 and 10 percent in 2003. Compliance expenditures represented 3 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2005, 2 percent in 2004 and 3 percent in 2003. Remediation spending during 2003 to 2005 was mainly related to remediation 61 Table of Contents activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2005, U. S. Steel accrued $49 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2005, was $145 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2006. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $113 million in 2006, $61 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2006 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $76 million in 2007, including $60 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. The Senate Judiciary Committee has recommended to the Senate legislation that, if enacted, would create an asbestos trust fund that would provide benefits to asbestos claimants funded by payments over 30 years of 62 Table of Contents $136 billion from companies and their insurers that have been involved in asbestos litigation, including U. S. Steel along with thousands of others. The legislation would provide an administrative system to process asbestos claims instead of resolution through judicial proceedings. The amount that a company would be required to pay under the current version of the legislation would depend upon its placement among several tiers and sub tiers, based upon corporate revenue and prior expenditures related to asbestos defense costs, settlements and judgments. Management estimates that if the legislation were adopted in the form proposed by the Judiciary Committee, the annual cost to U. S. Steel would be somewhat greater than the historical cost of asbestos defense and settlement. It is unclear whether any legislation will be adopted and any final legislation may be substantially different than the version recommended by the Judiciary Committee. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional detail concerning asbestos litigation, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. Outlook for 2006 The first quarter of 2006 looks positive for our domestic and European markets. Service center and end customer inventories are balanced and we expect continued strength in the energy markets served by our Tubular segment. For Flat rolled, first quarter 2006 shipments are expected to improve compared to the fourth quarter of 2005 due to the restart of the Gary No. 14 blast furnace, with prices at or above the fourth quarter level. We expect higher raw material costs to be largely offset by reduced energy and outage costs. For U. S. Steel Europe, first quarter shipments are expected to increase and average realized prices and costs should be consistent with fourth quarter levels. However, first quarter results will be negatively affected by production curtailments at Serbian operations as a result of natural gas supply disruptions and could also be negatively affected by potential job related actions by a labor union at USSB that is dissatisfied with the 2006 wage agreement, which became effective upon approval of the other unions. Shipments and average realized prices for the Tubular segment in the first quarter of 2006 are expected to be in line with the fourth quarter. First quarter 2006 results for Other Businesses should decline from the fourth quarter due primarily to normal seasonal variations at our iron ore operations in Minnesota. Total costs for pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately $300 million in 2006, compared to $390 million in 2005. Accounting Standards In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123R. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value 63 Table of Contents of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved a new rule that delayed the effective date of FAS 123R. Except for this deferral of the effective date, the guidance in FAS 123R is unchanged. Under the SECs rule, FAS 123R is now effective for U. S. Steel for annual rather than interim periods that begin after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply this Statement to all awards granted on or after January 1, 2006 and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after January 1, 2006 for the portion of outstanding awards for which requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for proforma disclosures. Currently, U. S. Steel expects that the effect of adopting this Statement on 2006 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $10 million. In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. This Interpretation clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists. U. S. Steel adopted the provisions of this Interpretation in the second quarter of 2005. There were no financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Interpretation. In May 2005, the FASB issued FAS 154, which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. FAS 154 eliminates the requirement to include the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle in the income statement and instead requires that changes in accounting principle be retroactively applied. FAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and correction of errors made on or after January 1, 2006, with early adoption permitted. U. S. Steel began applying the provisions of this statement in the fourth quarter of 2005. In February 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. This Statement resolves issues addressed in Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. D1, Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets, and is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect any financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Statement. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its market risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in income from operations. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain transactions, primarily related to forecasted natural gas purchases. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the natural gas purchase is settled. Once the purchase is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. 64 Table of Contents Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. U. S. Steel had no open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2005. Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in closing commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004 are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Assuming a Hypothetical PriceDecrease of: 2005 2004 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Incremental Decrease in Income Before Taxes: Zinc $ 2.9 $ 7.2 Natural Gas $ 1.8 $ 4.4 Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2005, may cause future pretax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $7 million in 2005, compared to gains of $4 million in 2004 and $1 million in 2003. These gains were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For carrying amount and fair value of derivative commodity instruments, see Note 26 to the Financial Statements. 65 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2005 and 2004 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 18 $ $ 7 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 1,568 $ 36 $ 1,419 $ 50 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2005, and 2004, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. (d) For additional information, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $36 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $23.1 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $61.6 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2005 euro forward rates would result in a $8.5 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 66 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in its operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 21,000 domestically and approximately 25,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in December 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Most employees at USSB are represented by three unions and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. On February 10, 2006, USSB and two of the three unions agreed to the hourly base earnings for 2006 and signed an annex to the collective bargaining agreement. As of the date of this filing, the largest labor union at USSB had not agreed to the negotiated 2006 hourly base earnings or signed the annex. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. 21 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income (loss) by reportable segments and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 6 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 60 and F 61. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is cyclical and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows general economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in various smaller geographic areas. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess world supply. This has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness, which have not been offset by commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. Rapidly growing demand and supply in China and other developing economies may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years steel consumption in China and other developing economies such as India has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by developing plans to rapidly increase steel production capability in these countries. Steel production, especially in China, has been expanding rapidly and could be well in excess of Chinese demand depending on continuing demand growth rates. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any significant Chinese capacity excess could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if excess production is exported to other markets. Increases in prices and limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. Steel producers require large amounts of raw materials iron ore or other iron containing material, steel scrap, coke and coal for integrated producers such as U. S. Steel, and scrap for mini mill producers. Both integrated and mini mill producers consume large amounts of energy. Over the last several years, prices for raw materials and energy, in particular natural gas, have increased significantly. In many cases these price increases have been a greater percentage than price increases for the sale of steel products. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in receiving sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner, resulting in production curtailments. These production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins and may continue to do so in the future. 22 Table of Contents Increased imports of steel products into the U.S. could negatively affect domestic steel prices and demand levels and reduce profitability of domestic producers. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 25 percent of the domestic steel market in 2005, 26 percent in 2004 and 19 percent in 2003. Foreign competitors typically have lower labor costs, and are often owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Import levels may also be impacted by decisions of government agencies under U.S. trade laws. Increases in future levels of imported steel could reduce future market prices and demand levels for domestic steel. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Domestic steel producers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the European Union and Japan are generally comparable to domestic standards, other nations have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to unplanned equipment failures. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Availability of supplies could also be affected by logistical disruptions (shortages of barges or rail cars). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. Risk Factors concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Many lawsuits have been filed against U. S. Steel involving asbestos related injuries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and cash flow. U. S. Steel is a defendant in a large number of cases in which approximately 8,400 claimants actively allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. Many of these cases involve multiple claimants (often hundreds or thousands) and defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred). It is possible that we may experience large judgments against us in the future that could have an impact upon the number of future claims filed against us and on the amount of future settlements, which would have an adverse impact on our profitability and cash flow. Our retiree employee health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans covering most of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 114,000 current retirees and beneficiaries are receiving pension and or medical benefits. U. S. Steels underfunded benefit obligations for retiree medical and life insurance were $2.3 billion at year end 2005. Most of these underfunded obligations are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Other postretirement benefit expense is expected to be approximately $111 million in 2006. 23 Table of Contents Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Several domestic competitors provide defined contribution health care plans with contributions increased based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. Our defined benefit pension plan costs are higher than those of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We have noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering many of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. The funded status of these plans declined from an overfunded position of $1.2 billion at year end 2001 to an underfunded position of $606 million at year end 2005. Minimum contributions to these plans is controlled under ERISA and other government regulations and substantial cash contributions may be required. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Pension benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Most domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit pension plans, but may provide defined contribution pension plans with contributions increasing based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our profitability and cash flow. U. S. Steel is currently involved in approximately 60 remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to third parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Numerous domestic competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Domestic competitors that have obtained relief under the Bankruptcy Code may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors applicable to U. S. Steel The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Under the terms of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due 2008 and our 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010 (collectively, the Senior Notes), we are not able to pay dividends on capital stock unless we meet certain restricted payment tests. The terms of our indebtedness and our accounts receivable program contain restrictive provisions that may limit our flexibility. We have Senior Notes outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $726 million as of December 31, 2005. The Senior Notes impose significant restrictions on us such as limits on additional borrowings and certain investments and the use of funds from asset sales. Our $600 million revolving credit agreement secured by inventory prohibits us from selling certain principal properties and imposes additional restrictions if the amount available to be borrowed under that agreement is less than $100 million. Such restrictions include maintaining a fixed charge coverage ratio and limitations on capital expenditures and investments. The Senior Notes, the revolving credit agreement and some of our other loan facilities and leases have provisions that may cause a default under one of these agreements to become a default under the others. These covenants may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 24 Table of Contents Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. Any downgrade in our credit ratings would make raising capital more difficult, would increase the cost of future borrowings and would affect the terms on which we purchase goods and services. In addition, the fees payable under our receivables sales program would increase and the amount of receivables eligible for sale could be reduced. Change in control clauses may require us to immediately purchase or repay debt. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, inventory facility and various other loan documents, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately purchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. We may not have the financial resources to make these purchases and repayments, and a failure to purchase or repay such indebtedness would trigger cross acceleration clauses under the Senior Notes and other indebtedness. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to realize. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net federal, foreign and state deferred tax assets of $486 million. Although management believes that it is more likely than not that future operating results and tax planning strategies generating sufficient future taxable income can be utilized to realize the net deferred tax assets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate such results or implement these strategies. Our international operations expose us to uncertainties and risks from abroad, which could negatively affect our results of operations. USSK, located in the Slovak Republic, and USSB, located in Serbia, constitute nearly 28% of our total raw steel production capability, and accounted for 24% of net sales for 2005. Both USSK and USSB are subject to economic conditions and political factors in Europe, which if changed could negatively affect their results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSK and USSB are also subject to foreign currency exchange risks. Any future international acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Natural gas supplies to USSB may be curtailed and such curtailments would have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. USSB is dependent upon availability of natural gas in Serbia, which is dependent upon a single pipeline. Serbia has experienced major curtailments during periods of peak demand in Eastern Europe. Such curtailments have forced USSB to interrupt steel production and finishing operations in the past and this could recur in the future. The carbon dioxide emission limits established by the European Commission may limit the amount of steel that can be produced at USSK and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. The European Commission (EC) has established carbon dioxide (CO2) emission limits for EU member countries. Under this program the Slovak Ministry of the Environment has reduced the amount of CO2 that USSK may emit. USSK may be required to reduce its production or purchase emission credits, either of which may have a negative impact on income and cash flow. Our business requires substantial debt service, contingent obligations, capital investment, operating lease, capital commitments and maintenance expenditures that we may be unable to fulfill. With approximately $1.6 billion of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2005, we have substantial debt service requirements. Interest and other financial costs, excluding foreign currency losses, interest income, capitalized 25 Table of Contents interest and the adjustment from the Gary property tax settlement, totaled $124 million in 2005 and are expected to be about the same in 2006; however, interest and other financial costs will change with changes to our capital structure. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2005, total capital expenditures were $2.2 billion. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program over a period commencing with the acquisition date and ending on December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2005, the remaining commitment under this program was $53 million. At December 31, 2005, our domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $82 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $376 million under operating leases. In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, raw steel and steel finishing production facilities, including periodic relines or rebuilds of our seventeen blast furnaces. As of December 31, 2005, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $133 million, guarantees of approximately $10 million of indebtedness for unconsolidated entities and contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements of approximately $3.9 billion, plus contingencies under the sale of our mining assets of approximately $79 million. As the general partner of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P., we are obligated to fund cash shortfalls incurred by that partnership but may withdraw as the general partner if we are required to fund in excess of $150 million in operating cash shortfalls. As of December 31, 2005, we were also contingently liable for $2 million of debt and other obligations of Marathon. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. U. S. Steels insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insurance retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. The collective bargaining agreement with the USWA contains provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USWA, grants the USWA a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the collective bargaining agreement and requires us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities. That agreement also restricts our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further requires that the ratio of non USWA employees to USWA employees at our domestic facilities not exceed 1 to 5. Strikes, work stoppages and customer concern about the possibility of strikes, particularly upon the expiration of our major domestic collective bargaining agreement, could adversely impact our relationships with our customers which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, mini mill producers and certain foreign competitors and producers of comparable products do not have unionized work forces. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USWA, foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. U. S. Steel is involved in multiemployer plans covering pensions and other postretirement benefit costs. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of these plans, which will have a negative effect on our cash flows. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of these plans. 26 Table of Contents U. S. Steel is subject to work stoppages as a result of periodic labor negotiations at facilities in Europe. Most employees at USSK and USSB are represented by unions pursuant to agreements that expire in December 2007 and November 2006, respectively, both of which are subject to annual wage rate negotiations. Any strike or work stoppage upon expiration of the current agreements or as a result of the inability to agree on annual wage rates could have significant negative effects on results of operations. Customer payment defaults could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries and could experience financial difficulties in times of economic downturn. In some cases, these difficulties may result in bankruptcy filings or cessation of operations. If customers experiencing financial problems default on paying amounts owed to us, we may not be able to collect these amounts or recognize expected revenue. Any material payment defaults by our customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with acquisitions. The success of recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions will depend substantially on our ability to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Recent acquisitions in the steel industry have involved prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our recent acquisitions. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy ProcessingCompany(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(b) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003 and our joint ventures, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 28 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007. In 2005, U. S. Steel made an irrevocable decision to purchase the electrolytic galvanizing facility at lease expiration. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works cogeneration facility in the second quarter of 2006. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 150 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 29 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. In 2005, approximately 42 percent of the cases filed against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed (jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000). Approximately 33 percent did not specify any damages at all, approximately 25 percent alleged damages of $1 million and less than half of one percent alleged damages exceeding $10 million. Historically, over 90 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. During 2005, U. S. Steel paid approximately $11 million in settlements. These settlements, along with review of case docket information for certain states and voluntary and involuntary dismissals, resulted in the disposition of approximately 3,800 claims. New case filings added approximately 1,200 claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse 30 Table of Contents effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 14 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2005, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 17 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 7 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 8 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $6.8 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named 31 Table of Contents Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/Feasibility Study (FS). The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project is not presently determinable. U. S. Steels share of the costs for this project will depend upon EPAs selection of an alternative from the range of alternatives presented in the FS and the number of PRPs available to allocate the costs. U. S. Steel anticipates that more PRPs may be added to the group by EPA before the costs of remediation are allocated. U. S. Steel has an accrual of $1.0 million for this site. In addition, there are 12 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 43 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 5 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 16 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 9 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $10 million at one site, in excess of $15 million at two sites and in excess of $25 million at one site. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. As of December 31, 2005, project costs have amounted to $52.5 million. U. S. Steel anticipates doing additional dredging at a cost of $8.4 million. U. S. Steel is presently in discussions with the dredging contractor and intends to meet with EPA in an effort to reduce the anticipated cost of this work. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $1.3 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property with total costs estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel paid its entire share of the assessment costs and $4.5 million of its share of the restoration costs to the public trustees in 2005. A balance of $16 million in restoration costs remains to be paid by U. S. Steel to complete its settlement obligations. 32 Table of Contents On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA and reports of field investigation findings have been submitted to EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans have been submitted to EPA for approval. Three self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $21.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations for the submitted work plans is estimated to be $2.8 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to 2002. On December 27, 2005, IDEM issued a NOV which includes alleged violations at the No. 8 Blast Furnace and the Coke Batteries for the period of 2002 through 2005. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a solid waste management unit (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After its acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel intends to submit a remediation alternative to IDEM recommending an in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.1 million. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $452,000. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects (SEPs) at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved and field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel submitted a Phase I RFI Report to ADEM in February 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $102,000. In addition, U. S. Steel has developed a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $418,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $338,000. 33 Table of Contents Lorain Tubular Operations In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe) with steelmaking, bar producing and tubular operations in Lorain, Ohio, was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Tubular Operations. U. S. Steel and EPA entered into a consent decree that resolved all issues related to U. S. Steels operations. The Consent Decree was filed with the U. S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio Eastern Division (United States of America and State of Ohio v. United States Steel Corporation), where it was entered November 29, 2005. In December 2005, U. S. Steel paid cash penalties totaling $100,025. Also in December 2005, U. S. Steel conducted a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. In addition, U. S. Steel has agreed to perform a SEP to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Issues related to the company that retained the steelmaking and bar producing facilities were resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works Effective February 14, 2005, U. S. Steel entered into a consent order with Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) related to Great Lakes Works that included the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace, which has been completed; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the steel producing facilities; a civil penalty of $950,000, which has been paid; and a SEP at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Various construction projects are underway at the steel producing facilities to improve emission capture and control. These projects are proceeding in compliance with the consent order schedule. Construction for the riverbank restoration SEP was completed in September 2005. On January 6, 2006, Great Lakes Works received a proposed administrative consent order (Order) from the MDEQ that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the facility. The Order identifies certain corrective actions desired by MDEQ to address the alleged violations and anticipates an undisclosed penalty amount. Great Lakes Works had previously initiated work on some of these actions and completed others. Costs to complete the remaining corrective actions requested by MDEQ are presently not determinable. One of the corrective actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has undertaken a project to remove historic basin sediments from these areas. $800,000 has been spent on the project as of December 31, 2005. Costs to complete the river basin project are estimated to be $1.2 million. Great Lakes Works intends to negotiate a settlement of this matter with MDEQ in 2006. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $13.0 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through June 30, 2005. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $385,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. Granite City Granite City Works received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004 for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occur when coke is pushed out of the ovens for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). The IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. The case is anticipated to be resolved by entering into a Consent Order in early 2006, which will include a revised pushing compliance plan and a penalty. IEPA has proposed a civil penalty of $175,000. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. 34 Table of Contents Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by Utah Department of Environmental Quality. In December 2005, a third party purchased the Geneva site and assumed Geneva Steel Companys rights and obligations under the asset sales agreement and the permit pursuant to a bankruptcy court order. U. S. Steel has reviewed environmental data concerning the site gathered by itself and third parties, has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations and has begun remediation on some areas of the site for which U. S. Steel has responsibility. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of remediation and post closure care of three hazardous waste impoundments to be $29.4 million. Other In February 2005, U. S. Steels lease for a third party to mine slag at the Gascola slag disposal site in Penn Hills, Pennsylvania was terminated. Current mining regulations require closure of the site. The cost to close the slag disposal site is estimated to be $2.8 million. This work will include contour of the highwalls and vegetative cover for the entire site. In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The Order allocated responsibility for remediation costs among U. S. Steel and two other parties. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $788,000, based on the agreed allocation factor of 26 percent. U. S. Steel is preparing a Remedial Action Plan (RAP) for the site for submittal to the North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural Resources (NCDENR) that will propose limited soil removal and monitored natural attenuation for groundwater beneath the site. The RAP is due to the NCDENR in April 2006. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its 50 percent share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.8 million. In 2005, KDHE and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service asserted a claim against U. S. Steel and SSB for natural resource damages at the site and nearby creek. The parties have agreed to settlement of this claim for a cash payment and U. S. Steels share is $247,875. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2006, are as follows: John J. Connelly 59 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 57 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer Gretchen R. Haggerty 50 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer David H. Lohr 52 Senior Vice PresidentEuropean Operations & President U. S. Steel Kosice Dan D. Sandman 57 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 56 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 58 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 51 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 35 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 57. As of January 31, 2006, there were 27,427 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment, and increased to $.10 per share effective with the June 2005 payment. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average closing price for U. S. Steels common stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of common shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2005, no unregistered shares were issued. 36 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table contains information about purchases by U. S. Steel of its equity securities during the period covered by this report. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased Average Price Paid per Share Total NumberOf SharesPurchased asPart ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans orPrograms Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under thePlans or Programs January 1 31, 2005 February 1 28, 2005 March 1 31, 2005 Quarter ended March 31, 2005 April 1 30, 2005 May 1 31, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 June 1 30, 2005 Quarter ended June 30, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 July 1 31, 2005 August 1 31, 2005 910,000 $ 42.04 910,000 7,090,000 September 1 30, 2005 300,000 $ 44.27 300,000 6,790,000 Quarter ended September 30, 2005 1,210,000 $ 42.59 1,210,000 6,790,000 October 1 31, 2005 200,000 $ 36.30 200,000 6,590,000 November 1 30, 2005 2,410,000 $ 40.15 2,410,000 4,180,000 December 1 31, 2005 2,000,000 $ 48.90 2,000,000 2,180,000 Quarter ended December 31, 2005 4,610,000 $ 43.78 4,610,000 2,180,000 With the exception of the shares repurchased in May 2005, the above shares were purchased pursuant to the U. S. Steel Common Stock Repurchase Program, which was announced on July 26, 2005 and allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. The above purchases were all made in the open market. On January 31, 2006, U. S. Steel announced the replacement of this repurchase program with a new program having the authority to purchase up to eight million shares of its common stock. It is expected that the purchases will be made from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions. The timing of such purchases will be determined by the company based upon a number of factors including the market price of United States Steel Corporation common stock; the availability and pursuit of strategic initiatives including investment and acquisition opportunities; operating cash flow and internal capital requirements; and general economic conditions in the United States and Europe. Of the shares repurchased in May 2005, 48,638 were purchased pursuant to the exercise by Non Officer Restricted Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan, and the remainder were purchased pursuant to the exercise by 2002 Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan. 37 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) Adjusted(a) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001(b) Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(c) $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 $ 6,949 $ 6,286 Income (loss) from operations(d) 1,439 1,625 (719 ) 123 (404 ) Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(d) 910 1,121 (363 ) 81 (211 ) Net income (loss)(d) $ 910 $ 1,135 $ (420 ) $ 81 $ (211 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) basic $ 7.87 $ 9.87 $ (3.67 ) $ 0.83 $ (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.72 (3.67 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Net income (loss)(e) basic 7.87 10.00 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.83 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Dividends paid(f) 0.38 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.55 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 9,822 $ 11,064 $ 7,897 $ 7,991 $ 8,332 Capitalization: Debt(g) $ 1,612 $ 1,371 $ 1,933 $ 1,434 $ 1,466 Stockholders equity 3,324 4,074 1,151 2,042 2,501 Total capitalization $ 4,936 $ 5,445 $ 3,084 $ 3,476 $ 3,967 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements and the Five Year Financial Summary. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation. On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The income statement for the year ended December 31, 2001 represents a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the sale of the mining assets, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. The increase in net sales from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of a $104 million impairment of receivables that was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected restructuring charges, higher pension and OPEB costs and increased compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. (e) See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (f) For year 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (g) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2002 to 2003 was mainly due to the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May 2003. 38 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the seventh largest steel producer in the world and the second largest integrated steel producer in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to implement our strategy to continue to increase our value added product mix; to expand our global business platform; to improve our capital structure and strengthen our balance sheet; to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets. In Europe, U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing European markets, and to invest in value added facilities, including an automotive hot dip galvanizing line that is currently under construction. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the sustainability of higher steel prices; the cost of purchased raw materials and energy; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has resulted in volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States in 2005 were lower than 2004 levels. Import levels may increase in 2006 depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, consumption in the United States versus other regions and foreign production levels. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on 39 Table of Contents historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2006. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting these rates, we utilize several Merrill Lynch Average AAA/AA Corporate Bond indexes and both the 30 year and the 10 year U. S. Treasury bond rates as a preliminary indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 5.75 percent to 5.50 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2006 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most non union benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2006. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $159 million in 2006. Total OPEB costs in 2006 are expected to be approximately $111 million. 40 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 1/2 percent change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and OPEB calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) (1/2%) 1/2% Expected return on plan assets Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension costs for 2006 $ 34 $ (34 ) Discount rate Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension & OPEB costs for 2006 $ 16 $ (17 ) Pension & OPEB liabilities at December 31, 2005 $ 430 $ (470 ) Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected OPEB costs for 2006 $ (8 ) $ 9 Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of its net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends, without regard to the one time repatriation in 2005, to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2005, net of the $300 million repatriation, amounted to approximately $1,276 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $400 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of 41 Table of Contents remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2005, total accruals for environmental remediation were $145 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. Change in Accounting Method During the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel changed its method of determining the cost of USSK inventories from the last in, first out (LIFO) method to the first in, first out (FIFO) method. Management considers the FIFO method to be preferable to the LIFO method for USSK because it creates consistency of the valuation method used for inventories within the USSE reportable segment and provides for comparability of the USSE segment with major international competitors. In accordance with FAS No. 154, prior period results have been adjusted to apply the new method retrospectively. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Segments During 2005, U. S. Steel had three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve domestic customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), container, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil Company LLC and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G Coatings Company L.P., which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with the former owner of USSB. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the USSB acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service center, appliance, container, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services and the management and development of real estate. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota and Delray Connecting Railroad Company, which were acquired from National. Prior to the sale on June 30, 2003 of U. S. Steels coal mines and related assets, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer values of steel rounds and bands supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs and may be adjusted quarterly if actual production costs warrant. For further information, see Note 6 to the Financial Statements. 42 Table of Contents Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales of U. S. Steel by segment for each of the last three years: (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2005 2004 2003(a) Flat rolled(b)(c) $ 8,813 $ 9,827 $ 6,401 USSE 3,336 2,839 1,817 Tubular 1,546 941 573 Straightline(c) 138 Total sales from reportable segments 13,695 13,607 8,929 Other Businesses(d) 344 368 399 Net sales $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Includes net sales from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. (d) Includes net sales from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business, and from the sale of coal prior to June 30, 2003, when U. S. Steel sold its coal mining business. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2005 versus Year Ended December 31, 2004 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 14 % 6 % 0 % 0 % 2 % 10 % USSE 2 % 14 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 6 % 52 % 5 % 0 % 1 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects 43 Table of Contents Total net sales in 2005 increased by $64 million compared to 2004. Sales for the Flat rolled segment were down 10 percent as the increases in Flat rolled average steel prices (up $43 per ton) were more than offset by lower sheet shipment volumes and lower trade shipments of coke. Sales for USSE increased by 18 percent mainly as a result of higher average steel prices (up $81 per ton). Tubular sales were up significantly due primarily to higher average prices (up $463 per ton), as well as increased shipment volumes and an improved product mix. Year Ended December 31, 2004 versus Year Ended December 31, 2003 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 12 % 34 % 4 % 0 % 4 % 54 % USSE 2 % 28 % 11 % 7 % 8 % 56 % Tubular 23 % 42 % 2 % 0 % 3 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects Total net sales in 2004 increased $4,647 million compared to 2003. Sales for the Flat rolled segment increased 54 percent mainly as a result of higher average realized prices (up $152 per ton), higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products; and higher sales on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill. Sales for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. USSE sales were up 56 percent mainly due to higher average realized prices (up $171 per ton), favorable changes in product mix and favorable foreign currency exchange rate effects. Sales for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. The 64 percent increase for Tubular was primarily due to higher average realized prices (up $233 per ton) and shipment volumes. Operating expenses Profit based union payments Results for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 included costs related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. All of these costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 % Change Allocated to segment results $ 115 $ 131 12 % Retiree benefit expenses 100 110 9 % Total $ 215 $ 241 11 % Payment amounts per the agreement with the USWA are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) to be contributed to the National Benefit Trust, the purpose of which (when established) is to assist National retirees with healthcare costs, based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item were calculated and recorded through the income statement in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. 44 Table of Contents Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $280 million in 2005, compared to $254 million in 2004 and $556 million in 2003. The costs in 2005, 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $23 million, $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The increase from 2004 to 2005 mainly reflected a lower asset base, which resulted in a higher amortization of net actuarial losses and a lower return on plan assets. Excluding the settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $109 million in 2005, $106 million in 2004 and $241 million in 2003. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $19 million in 2005, $18 million in 2004 and $15 million in 2003. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $698 million in 2005, compared to $739 million in 2004. The decline primarly reflected lower expenses for stock based and executive compensation, partially offset by higher pension costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower stock based compensation and lower OPEB costs. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for further details. 45 Table of Contents Income (loss) from operations:(a) Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(b) (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 Flat rolled(c) $ 602 $ 1,185 $ (54 ) USSE 502 439 214 Tubular 528 197 (25 ) Straightline(c) (70 ) Total income from reportable segments 1,632 1,821 65 Other Businesses 43 58 15 Segment income from operations $ 1,675 $ 1,879 $ 80 Retiree benefit expenses (267 ) (257 ) (107 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain 70 Stock appreciation rights 1 (23 ) (75 ) Workforce reduction charges (20 ) (17 ) (621 ) Environmental remediation at previously sold facility (20 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Asset impairments (57 ) Litigation items (25 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,439 $ 1,625 $ (719 ) (a) See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. (b) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. 46 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled segment income in 2005 declined by $583 million compared to 2004. The decrease primarily resulted from lower steel and commercial coke shipment volumes and higher costs for raw materials, outages, energy and labor. These were partially offset by increased prices for flat rolled products and higher transfer values for steel rounds supplied to Tubular. During 2005, the cost to produce tube rounds has increased dramatically and the transfer price for tube rounds supplied to Tubular, which had been established at the beginning of 2005 based on projected costs, was increased by $53 per ton effective April 1, 2005, by an additional $20 per ton effective July 1, 2005, and by an additional $46 per ton effective October 1, 2005. Capability utilization in 2005 was adversely affected by the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace as well as lower demand levels early in the year as a result of high service center and end customer inventory levels. Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. 47 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income of $502 million for 2005 increased by $63 million from 2004 due mainly to higher prices, partially offset by increased raw material and outage costs. USSE segment income for 2004 was $439 million, compared to income of $214 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. Capability utilization declined in 2003 and 2004 primarily due to the inclusion of USSB as one of its two blast furnaces was not operational until the third quarter of 2005. Capability utilization was also adversely affected in 2005 by the rebuild of our largest European blast furnace in Slovakia and in 2004 by operational difficulties with a blast furnace early in the year. 48 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular Tubular segment income of $528 million in 2005 reflected an improvement of $331 million compared to 2004. The increase resulted mainly from higher prices, partially offset by higher costs for steel rounds as discussed in Segment results for Flat rolled. Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of steel rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which were transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. Results for Other Businesses The decline in income from Other Businesses from $58 million in 2004 to $43 million in 2005 was mainly due to lower results at iron ore pellet operations due to lower trade sales and increased costs for natural gas, partially offset by higher intersegment sales and by improved results for real estate activities and transportation services. Other Businesses recorded income of $58 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services, partially offset by lower results for real estate activities. Items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain of $70 million in 2005 resulted from a personal property tax settlement with the city of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana (Gary property tax settlement) and reflected the reversal of accruals in excess of the settlement amount of $44 million. 49 Table of Contents Stock appreciation rights resulted in a credit to compensation expense of $1 million in 2005 and charges of $23 million and $75 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued from 1995 through 2003 and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. Workforce reduction charges of $20 million in 2005 reflected special termination benefits for a voluntary early retirement program offered to certain employees at USSK. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain coal seam gas interests and from the sale in June 2003 of our coal mines and related assets. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and recognition of certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Net interest and other financial costs Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(a) (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Net interest and other financial costs $ 72 $ 156 $ 167 Foreign currency losses (gains) 80 (36 ) (54 ) Adjustment from Gary property tax settlement (25 ) Adjustment related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes (38 ) (17 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 33 Total net interest and other financial costs $ 127 $ 115 $ 96 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Net interest and other financial costs in 2005 included a favorable adjustment of $25 million related to the Gary property tax settlement. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 also included a $33 million charge resulting from the early extinguishment of certain senior debt. Excluding these items, the $32 million increase in 2005 primarily reflected an unfavorable change in foreign currency effects. This was partially offset by lower debt levels resulting from the retirement of USSK long term debt in November 2004 and the redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004, higher interest income and lower interest on tax related liabilities. Excluding the previously identified items, the small increase in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected a smaller foreign currency gain, partially offset by higher interest income and 50 Table of Contents lower interest on tax related liabilities. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which was the functional currency of both prior to January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of our operations outside the United States was the U.S. dollar through December 31, 2005. As of January 1, 2006, the functional currency for USSK and USSB was changed from the U.S. dollar to the euro primarily because of significant changes in economic facts and circumstances as a result of Slovakias entry into the European Union and the subsequent entry of the Slovak koruna into the Exchange Rate Mechanizm II in preparation for Slovakias adoption of the euro. Other factors that contributed to this change are the evolution of USSE into an autonomous business segment, the settlement of its U.S. dollar denominated debt and the establishment of euro based debt facilities. This change in functional currency will be applied on a prospective basis. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2005 was $365 million, compared to $356 million in 2004 and a benefit of $452 million in 2003. The provision in 2005 included a charge of $37 million resulting from the $95 million pre tax gain from the Gary property tax settlement and a $16 million charge resulting from the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. During 2005, a current tax provision was booked for USSK because the provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 50 percent of its tax liability for years 2005 through 2009, compared to a 100 percent credit in previous years. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefit in 2003 included a favorable effect relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million. The tax provisions in all three years were primarily the result of pre tax results from domestic operations. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets of $472 million. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2005, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $14 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $81 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the cumulative losses experienced since the acquisition of USSB. If USSB generates sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $58 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2005 was $910 million, compared with $1,135 million in 2004 and with a net loss of $420 million in 2003. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2005 increased $480 million from year end 2004 primarily due to increased cash balances (see Cash Flows) and higher inventories, partially offset by a reduction in outstanding accounts receivable. The increase in inventories was mainly due to higher quantities of raw materials. The decrease in accounts receivables primarily resulted from lower sales in the fourth quarter of 2005, compared to the fourth quarter of 2004, due mainly to lower prices and shipment volumes for flat rolled products. 51 Table of Contents FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability was required for this plan. Consequently, entries were recorded that eliminated prepaid pensions, increased the intangible pension asset by $250 million and resulted in a net charge to equity of $1.37 billion, which increased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2005 increased $171 million from year end 2004 and long term deferred income tax liabilities were eliminated, primarily due to the establishment of federal and state deferred tax assets in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2005 increased $214 million from year end 2004 mainly due to the increase in short term debt and current maturities of long term debt, which primarily reflects amounts drawn against a one year revolving credit facility at USSK. The facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation of $300 million in foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities of $1,218 million in 2005 and $1,400 million in 2004 was more than adequate to cover investing and financing activities. In 2003, net cash provided from operating activities was $577 million, which was insufficient to cover the acquisitions of National and USSB. The shortfall was covered by the issuance of long term debt and preferred stock. Cash from operating activities was reduced by payments related to employee benefits as shown in the table below. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Employee Benefit Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ (130 ) $ (295 ) $ (16 ) OPEB payments not funded by trusts (213 ) (186 ) (60 ) Contributions to VEBA(a) (60 ) (30 ) Contributions to other OPEB trusts (22 ) (4 ) (19 ) Payments to multiemployer pension plans(b) (28 ) (50 )(c) Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts (24 ) (44 ) (15 ) Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ (477 ) $ (609 ) $ (110 ) (a) All were voluntary except for $10 million in 2005. (b) Primarily the Steelworkers Pension Trust. (c) Includes $11 million related to 2003 hours worked. 52 Table of Contents Capital expenditures were $741 million in 2005, $579 million in 2004 and $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $492 million in 2005 included spending for the major rebuild of the largest U. S. Steel blast furnace at Gary Works, for environmental projects at our iron ore operations and for coke oven thru wall repairs. European expenditures of $249 million included spending at USSK for air emission reduction projects for cokemaking and steelmaking facilities, for a new automotive galvanizing line, for construction of an air separation plant and for blast furnace upgrades; and spending at USSB for the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Domestic expenditures in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Tubular Operations and other smaller projects, the most significant of which were at Gary Works, Mon Valley Works and Minntac. European expenditures in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. 53 Table of Contents U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2005, totaled $82 million. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2005, was $53 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $156 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2005, leaving a balance of $1 million under this commitment. Capital expenditures for 2006 are expected to be approximately $700 million, reflecting approximately $440 million for domestic operations and $260 million for European operations. Domestic projects include the completion of the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace at Gary Works, acquisition of mobile, mining and other production equipment, and coke oven thru wall replacements at Clairton Works. We are also evaluating alternatives to add cokemaking capacity and to enhance energy recovery efficiency. Projects in Slovakia include continued spending for a new automotive galvanizing line, and continuing work on air emission reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include preparatory work for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace in 2007. The preceding statement concerning expected 2006 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2005 reflected amounts drawn against a USSK credit agreement that was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Common stock repurchased reflected cash utilized to repurchase 5.8 million shares of U. S. Steel common stock during 2005 in the open market. A U. S. Steel common stock repurchase program, which was announced during the third quarter of 2005, allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. On January 31, 2006, the Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004, which were used for the early redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004. This redemption is included in repayment of long term debt, which also reflects the retirement of long term USSK debt in November 2004. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock Series B Preferred Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2005 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.08 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2004 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2003 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 1.206 $ Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average market price for U. S. Steels common 54 Table of Contents stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Liquidity U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement to sell a revolving interest in eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries through a commercial paper conduit program with funding under the facility up to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. The Receivables Purchase Agreement expires on November 28, 2006. Qualifying accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. While the Receivables Purchase Agreement expires in November 2006, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed in the following paragraph and other debt obligations, any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 22, 2006. As of December 31, 2005, $500 million was available to be sold under this facility. U. S. Steel has a revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by a lien on our domestic inventory and receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement (Inventory Facility). The Inventory Facility contains restrictive covenants, many of which apply only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million, including a fixed charge coverage ratio test. In addition, a $100 million availability block may apply beginning May 1, 2008 until the 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes) are repaid, refinanced or defeased. Interest on borrowings is calculated based on either LIBOR or the agents prime rate using spreads based on facility availability as defined in the agreement. Although there were no amounts drawn against this facility at December 31, 2005, availability was $594 million due to $6 million of letters of credit issued against the facility. This facility expires in October 2009. At December 31, 2005, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. USSB was the sole obligor on a EUR 9.3 million committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility expired on September 27, 2005. On September 28, 2005, USSB entered into a new EUR 25 million facility (which approximated $30 million at December 31, 2005), which is secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods and expires September 28, 2008. At December 31, 2005, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. USSK is the sole obligor on a EUR 195 million revolving credit facility (which approximated $231 million at December 31, 2005) that expires in December 2006. The facility bears interest at EURIBOR plus 20 basis points. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on undrawn amounts. At December 31, 2005, this facility was fully drawn. This facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes, and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). 55 Table of Contents On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.5 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $114 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4 million during 2005, and does not expect any material changes in 2006. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2005, in the amount of $2 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as $556 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases and $41 million relating to certain operating leases, may be declared immediately due and payable. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2005: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents(a) $ 1,452 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 56 Amounts available under USSB credit facility 30 Total estimated liquidity(b) $ 2,632 (a) Excludes $27 million of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. (b) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U.S.Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (a) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U. S. Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (b) Excludes $27 million and $16 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity has increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. 57 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2005, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2006 2007through2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,613 $ 249 $ 394 $ 413 $ 557 Operating leases(b) 376 106 121 52 97 Capital commitments(c) 135 49 33 53 Environmental commitments(c) 145 26 119 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e) 29 51 (e) Other postretirement benefits (f) 225 530 500 (f) Total contractual obligations $ 2,269 (g) $ 684 $ 1,129 $ 965 $ 826 (g) (a) See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2006 through 2010 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2005, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $130 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $24 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in 2006. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $13 million to pension plans not funded by trusts in 2006. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension 58 Table of Contents plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust to be established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2005, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2006 2007through 2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 83 $ 75 $ $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 16 4 12 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 34 34 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 10 8 1 1 Contingent liabilities: Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 3,886 2,507 1,078 195 106 Total commercial commitments $ 4,179 $ 2,594 $ 1,079 $ 195 $ 311 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 19 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works co generation facility in the second quarter of 2006; therefore, the agreement for the supply of electric power (previously expiring in 2011) will be terminated. U. S. Steel has an off balance sheet arrangement for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. This operating lease arrangement is with a special purpose trust (Trust). The Trust financed the construction of the facility and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficiaries of the Trust. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of this entity and there is no assurance that U. S. Steel will purchase the facility at lease expiration. U. S. Steels transactions with the Trust are limited to the operating lease agreement, and the associated lease expense is included in cost of sales on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate this Trust because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. 59 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement resulted in an increase of approximately $45 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance in order to meet environmental standards as established from time to time by Slovak law. One current compliance project is a dedusting system 60 Table of Contents for Steel Shop No. 2 to meet air emission standards for particulates. These standards are applicable January 1, 2007 and USSK is attempting to complete the project by this deadline; however, project completion is currently anticipated for the first quarter 2007. Failure to meet the applicable deadline could result in the imposition of corrective measures by the Slovak Ministry of Environment (Ministry). While the United States has not ratified the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC), in order to provide EU member states a mechanism for fulfilling their Kyoto commitments, has established its own CO2 limits for every EU member state. In 2004, the EC approved a national allocation plan for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias originally proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent, and following that decision the Ministry imposed an 8 percent reduction to the amount of CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. Subsequently, USSK filed legal actions agains the EC and the Ministry challenging these reductions. In addition, USSK is evaluating a number of alternatives ranging from purchasing CO2 allowances to reducing steel production, and it is not currently possible to predict the impact of these decisions on USSK. However, the actual shortfall of allowances for the initial allocation period (2005 through 2007) will depend upon a number of internal and external variables and the effect of that shortfall on USSK cannot be predicted at this time. Based on the fair value of the anticipated shortfall of allowances related to production in 2005, a long term other liability of $4 million has been charged to income and recorded on the balance sheet. Domestically, while ratification of the Kyoto Protocol does not seem likely in the near term, there remains the possibility that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may impose limitations on greenhouse gases. The impact on U. S. Steels domestic operations cannot be estimated. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Domestic: Capital $ 66 $ 24 $ 8 Compliance Operating & maintenance 305 241 206 Remediation(b) 23 18 38 Total Domestic $ 394 $ 283 $ 252 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 97 $ 22 Compliance Operating & maintenance 12 8 10 Remediation(b) 3 3 3 Total USSE $ 82 $ 108 $ 35 Total U. S. Steel $ 476 $ 391 $ 287 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 18 percent of total capital expenditures in 2005, 21 percent in 2004 and 10 percent in 2003. Compliance expenditures represented 3 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2005, 2 percent in 2004 and 3 percent in 2003. Remediation spending during 2003 to 2005 was mainly related to remediation 61 Table of Contents activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2005, U. S. Steel accrued $49 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2005, was $145 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2006. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $113 million in 2006, $61 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2006 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $76 million in 2007, including $60 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. The Senate Judiciary Committee has recommended to the Senate legislation that, if enacted, would create an asbestos trust fund that would provide benefits to asbestos claimants funded by payments over 30 years of 62 Table of Contents $136 billion from companies and their insurers that have been involved in asbestos litigation, including U. S. Steel along with thousands of others. The legislation would provide an administrative system to process asbestos claims instead of resolution through judicial proceedings. The amount that a company would be required to pay under the current version of the legislation would depend upon its placement among several tiers and sub tiers, based upon corporate revenue and prior expenditures related to asbestos defense costs, settlements and judgments. Management estimates that if the legislation were adopted in the form proposed by the Judiciary Committee, the annual cost to U. S. Steel would be somewhat greater than the historical cost of asbestos defense and settlement. It is unclear whether any legislation will be adopted and any final legislation may be substantially different than the version recommended by the Judiciary Committee. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional detail concerning asbestos litigation, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. Outlook for 2006 The first quarter of 2006 looks positive for our domestic and European markets. Service center and end customer inventories are balanced and we expect continued strength in the energy markets served by our Tubular segment. For Flat rolled, first quarter 2006 shipments are expected to improve compared to the fourth quarter of 2005 due to the restart of the Gary No. 14 blast furnace, with prices at or above the fourth quarter level. We expect higher raw material costs to be largely offset by reduced energy and outage costs. For U. S. Steel Europe, first quarter shipments are expected to increase and average realized prices and costs should be consistent with fourth quarter levels. However, first quarter results will be negatively affected by production curtailments at Serbian operations as a result of natural gas supply disruptions and could also be negatively affected by potential job related actions by a labor union at USSB that is dissatisfied with the 2006 wage agreement, which became effective upon approval of the other unions. Shipments and average realized prices for the Tubular segment in the first quarter of 2006 are expected to be in line with the fourth quarter. First quarter 2006 results for Other Businesses should decline from the fourth quarter due primarily to normal seasonal variations at our iron ore operations in Minnesota. Total costs for pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately $300 million in 2006, compared to $390 million in 2005. Accounting Standards In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123R. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value 63 Table of Contents of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved a new rule that delayed the effective date of FAS 123R. Except for this deferral of the effective date, the guidance in FAS 123R is unchanged. Under the SECs rule, FAS 123R is now effective for U. S. Steel for annual rather than interim periods that begin after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply this Statement to all awards granted on or after January 1, 2006 and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after January 1, 2006 for the portion of outstanding awards for which requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for proforma disclosures. Currently, U. S. Steel expects that the effect of adopting this Statement on 2006 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $10 million. In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. This Interpretation clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists. U. S. Steel adopted the provisions of this Interpretation in the second quarter of 2005. There were no financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Interpretation. In May 2005, the FASB issued FAS 154, which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. FAS 154 eliminates the requirement to include the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle in the income statement and instead requires that changes in accounting principle be retroactively applied. FAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and correction of errors made on or after January 1, 2006, with early adoption permitted. U. S. Steel began applying the provisions of this statement in the fourth quarter of 2005. In February 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. This Statement resolves issues addressed in Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. D1, Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets, and is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect any financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Statement. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its market risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in income from operations. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain transactions, primarily related to forecasted natural gas purchases. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the natural gas purchase is settled. Once the purchase is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. 64 Table of Contents Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. U. S. Steel had no open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2005. Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in closing commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004 are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Assuming a Hypothetical PriceDecrease of: 2005 2004 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Incremental Decrease in Income Before Taxes: Zinc $ 2.9 $ 7.2 Natural Gas $ 1.8 $ 4.4 Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2005, may cause future pretax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $7 million in 2005, compared to gains of $4 million in 2004 and $1 million in 2003. These gains were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For carrying amount and fair value of derivative commodity instruments, see Note 26 to the Financial Statements. 65 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2005 and 2004 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 18 $ $ 7 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 1,568 $ 36 $ 1,419 $ 50 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2005, and 2004, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. (d) For additional information, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $36 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $23.1 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $61.6 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2005 euro forward rates would result in a $8.5 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 66 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include completion of the remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred, and it is possible that additional matters may come to its attention which may require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 21,000 domestically and approximately 25,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in December 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Most employees at USSB are represented by three unions and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. On February 10, 2006, USSB and two of the three unions agreed to the hourly base earnings for 2006 and signed an annex to the collective bargaining agreement. As of the date of this filing, the largest labor union at USSB had not agreed to the negotiated 2006 hourly base earnings or signed the annex. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. 21 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income (loss) by reportable segments and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 6 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 60 and F 61. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is cyclical and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows general economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in various smaller geographic areas. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess world supply. This has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness, which have not been offset by commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. Rapidly growing demand and supply in China and other developing economies may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years steel consumption in China and other developing economies such as India has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by developing plans to rapidly increase steel production capability in these countries. Steel production, especially in China, has been expanding rapidly and could be well in excess of Chinese demand depending on continuing demand growth rates. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any significant Chinese capacity excess could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if excess production is exported to other markets. Increases in prices and limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. Steel producers require large amounts of raw materials iron ore or other iron containing material, steel scrap, coke and coal for integrated producers such as U. S. Steel, and scrap for mini mill producers. Both integrated and mini mill producers consume large amounts of energy. Over the last several years, prices for raw materials and energy, in particular natural gas, have increased significantly. In many cases these price increases have been a greater percentage than price increases for the sale of steel products. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in receiving sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner, resulting in production curtailments. These production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins and may continue to do so in the future. 22 Table of Contents Increased imports of steel products into the U.S. could negatively affect domestic steel prices and demand levels and reduce profitability of domestic producers. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 25 percent of the domestic steel market in 2005, 26 percent in 2004 and 19 percent in 2003. Foreign competitors typically have lower labor costs, and are often owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Import levels may also be impacted by decisions of government agencies under U.S. trade laws. Increases in future levels of imported steel could reduce future market prices and demand levels for domestic steel. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Domestic steel producers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the European Union and Japan are generally comparable to domestic standards, other nations have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to unplanned equipment failures. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Availability of supplies could also be affected by logistical disruptions (shortages of barges or rail cars). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. Risk Factors concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Many lawsuits have been filed against U. S. Steel involving asbestos related injuries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and cash flow. U. S. Steel is a defendant in a large number of cases in which approximately 8,400 claimants actively allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. Many of these cases involve multiple claimants (often hundreds or thousands) and defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred). It is possible that we may experience large judgments against us in the future that could have an impact upon the number of future claims filed against us and on the amount of future settlements, which would have an adverse impact on our profitability and cash flow. Our retiree employee health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans covering most of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 114,000 current retirees and beneficiaries are receiving pension and or medical benefits. U. S. Steels underfunded benefit obligations for retiree medical and life insurance were $2.3 billion at year end 2005. Most of these underfunded obligations are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Other postretirement benefit expense is expected to be approximately $111 million in 2006. 23 Table of Contents Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Several domestic competitors provide defined contribution health care plans with contributions increased based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. Our defined benefit pension plan costs are higher than those of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We have noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering many of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. The funded status of these plans declined from an overfunded position of $1.2 billion at year end 2001 to an underfunded position of $606 million at year end 2005. Minimum contributions to these plans is controlled under ERISA and other government regulations and substantial cash contributions may be required. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Pension benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Most domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit pension plans, but may provide defined contribution pension plans with contributions increasing based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our profitability and cash flow. U. S. Steel is currently involved in approximately 60 remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to third parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Numerous domestic competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Domestic competitors that have obtained relief under the Bankruptcy Code may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors applicable to U. S. Steel The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Under the terms of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due 2008 and our 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010 (collectively, the Senior Notes), we are not able to pay dividends on capital stock unless we meet certain restricted payment tests. The terms of our indebtedness and our accounts receivable program contain restrictive provisions that may limit our flexibility. We have Senior Notes outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $726 million as of December 31, 2005. The Senior Notes impose significant restrictions on us such as limits on additional borrowings and certain investments and the use of funds from asset sales. Our $600 million revolving credit agreement secured by inventory prohibits us from selling certain principal properties and imposes additional restrictions if the amount available to be borrowed under that agreement is less than $100 million. Such restrictions include maintaining a fixed charge coverage ratio and limitations on capital expenditures and investments. The Senior Notes, the revolving credit agreement and some of our other loan facilities and leases have provisions that may cause a default under one of these agreements to become a default under the others. These covenants may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 24 Table of Contents Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. Any downgrade in our credit ratings would make raising capital more difficult, would increase the cost of future borrowings and would affect the terms on which we purchase goods and services. In addition, the fees payable under our receivables sales program would increase and the amount of receivables eligible for sale could be reduced. Change in control clauses may require us to immediately purchase or repay debt. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, inventory facility and various other loan documents, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately purchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. We may not have the financial resources to make these purchases and repayments, and a failure to purchase or repay such indebtedness would trigger cross acceleration clauses under the Senior Notes and other indebtedness. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to realize. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net federal, foreign and state deferred tax assets of $486 million. Although management believes that it is more likely than not that future operating results and tax planning strategies generating sufficient future taxable income can be utilized to realize the net deferred tax assets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate such results or implement these strategies. Our international operations expose us to uncertainties and risks from abroad, which could negatively affect our results of operations. USSK, located in the Slovak Republic, and USSB, located in Serbia, constitute nearly 28% of our total raw steel production capability, and accounted for 24% of net sales for 2005. Both USSK and USSB are subject to economic conditions and political factors in Europe, which if changed could negatively affect their results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSK and USSB are also subject to foreign currency exchange risks. Any future international acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Natural gas supplies to USSB may be curtailed and such curtailments would have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. USSB is dependent upon availability of natural gas in Serbia, which is dependent upon a single pipeline. Serbia has experienced major curtailments during periods of peak demand in Eastern Europe. Such curtailments have forced USSB to interrupt steel production and finishing operations in the past and this could recur in the future. The carbon dioxide emission limits established by the European Commission may limit the amount of steel that can be produced at USSK and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. The European Commission (EC) has established carbon dioxide (CO2) emission limits for EU member countries. Under this program the Slovak Ministry of the Environment has reduced the amount of CO2 that USSK may emit. USSK may be required to reduce its production or purchase emission credits, either of which may have a negative impact on income and cash flow. Our business requires substantial debt service, contingent obligations, capital investment, operating lease, capital commitments and maintenance expenditures that we may be unable to fulfill. With approximately $1.6 billion of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2005, we have substantial debt service requirements. Interest and other financial costs, excluding foreign currency losses, interest income, capitalized 25 Table of Contents interest and the adjustment from the Gary property tax settlement, totaled $124 million in 2005 and are expected to be about the same in 2006; however, interest and other financial costs will change with changes to our capital structure. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2005, total capital expenditures were $2.2 billion. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program over a period commencing with the acquisition date and ending on December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2005, the remaining commitment under this program was $53 million. At December 31, 2005, our domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $82 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $376 million under operating leases. In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, raw steel and steel finishing production facilities, including periodic relines or rebuilds of our seventeen blast furnaces. As of December 31, 2005, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $133 million, guarantees of approximately $10 million of indebtedness for unconsolidated entities and contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements of approximately $3.9 billion, plus contingencies under the sale of our mining assets of approximately $79 million. As the general partner of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P., we are obligated to fund cash shortfalls incurred by that partnership but may withdraw as the general partner if we are required to fund in excess of $150 million in operating cash shortfalls. As of December 31, 2005, we were also contingently liable for $2 million of debt and other obligations of Marathon. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. U. S. Steels insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insurance retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. The collective bargaining agreement with the USWA contains provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USWA, grants the USWA a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the collective bargaining agreement and requires us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities. That agreement also restricts our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further requires that the ratio of non USWA employees to USWA employees at our domestic facilities not exceed 1 to 5. Strikes, work stoppages and customer concern about the possibility of strikes, particularly upon the expiration of our major domestic collective bargaining agreement, could adversely impact our relationships with our customers which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, mini mill producers and certain foreign competitors and producers of comparable products do not have unionized work forces. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USWA, foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. U. S. Steel is involved in multiemployer plans covering pensions and other postretirement benefit costs. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of these plans, which will have a negative effect on our cash flows. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of these plans. 26 Table of Contents U. S. Steel is subject to work stoppages as a result of periodic labor negotiations at facilities in Europe. Most employees at USSK and USSB are represented by unions pursuant to agreements that expire in December 2007 and November 2006, respectively, both of which are subject to annual wage rate negotiations. Any strike or work stoppage upon expiration of the current agreements or as a result of the inability to agree on annual wage rates could have significant negative effects on results of operations. Customer payment defaults could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries and could experience financial difficulties in times of economic downturn. In some cases, these difficulties may result in bankruptcy filings or cessation of operations. If customers experiencing financial problems default on paying amounts owed to us, we may not be able to collect these amounts or recognize expected revenue. Any material payment defaults by our customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with acquisitions. The success of recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions will depend substantially on our ability to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Recent acquisitions in the steel industry have involved prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our recent acquisitions. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy ProcessingCompany(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(b) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003 and our joint ventures, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 28 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007. In 2005, U. S. Steel made an irrevocable decision to purchase the electrolytic galvanizing facility at lease expiration. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works cogeneration facility in the second quarter of 2006. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 150 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 29 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. In 2005, approximately 42 percent of the cases filed against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed (jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000). Approximately 33 percent did not specify any damages at all, approximately 25 percent alleged damages of $1 million and less than half of one percent alleged damages exceeding $10 million. Historically, over 90 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. During 2005, U. S. Steel paid approximately $11 million in settlements. These settlements, along with review of case docket information for certain states and voluntary and involuntary dismissals, resulted in the disposition of approximately 3,800 claims. New case filings added approximately 1,200 claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse 30 Table of Contents effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 14 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2005, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 17 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 7 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 8 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $6.8 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named 31 Table of Contents Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/Feasibility Study (FS). The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project is not presently determinable. U. S. Steels share of the costs for this project will depend upon EPAs selection of an alternative from the range of alternatives presented in the FS and the number of PRPs available to allocate the costs. U. S. Steel anticipates that more PRPs may be added to the group by EPA before the costs of remediation are allocated. U. S. Steel has an accrual of $1.0 million for this site. In addition, there are 12 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 43 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 5 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 16 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 9 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $10 million at one site, in excess of $15 million at two sites and in excess of $25 million at one site. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. As of December 31, 2005, project costs have amounted to $52.5 million. U. S. Steel anticipates doing additional dredging at a cost of $8.4 million. U. S. Steel is presently in discussions with the dredging contractor and intends to meet with EPA in an effort to reduce the anticipated cost of this work. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $1.3 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property with total costs estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel paid its entire share of the assessment costs and $4.5 million of its share of the restoration costs to the public trustees in 2005. A balance of $16 million in restoration costs remains to be paid by U. S. Steel to complete its settlement obligations. 32 Table of Contents On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA and reports of field investigation findings have been submitted to EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans have been submitted to EPA for approval. Three self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $21.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations for the submitted work plans is estimated to be $2.8 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to 2002. On December 27, 2005, IDEM issued a NOV which includes alleged violations at the No. 8 Blast Furnace and the Coke Batteries for the period of 2002 through 2005. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a solid waste management unit (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After its acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel intends to submit a remediation alternative to IDEM recommending an in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.1 million. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $452,000. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects (SEPs) at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved and field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel submitted a Phase I RFI Report to ADEM in February 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $102,000. In addition, U. S. Steel has developed a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $418,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $338,000. 33 Table of Contents Lorain Tubular Operations In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe) with steelmaking, bar producing and tubular operations in Lorain, Ohio, was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Tubular Operations. U. S. Steel and EPA entered into a consent decree that resolved all issues related to U. S. Steels operations. The Consent Decree was filed with the U. S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio Eastern Division (United States of America and State of Ohio v. United States Steel Corporation), where it was entered November 29, 2005. In December 2005, U. S. Steel paid cash penalties totaling $100,025. Also in December 2005, U. S. Steel conducted a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. In addition, U. S. Steel has agreed to perform a SEP to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Issues related to the company that retained the steelmaking and bar producing facilities were resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works Effective February 14, 2005, U. S. Steel entered into a consent order with Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) related to Great Lakes Works that included the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace, which has been completed; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the steel producing facilities; a civil penalty of $950,000, which has been paid; and a SEP at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Various construction projects are underway at the steel producing facilities to improve emission capture and control. These projects are proceeding in compliance with the consent order schedule. Construction for the riverbank restoration SEP was completed in September 2005. On January 6, 2006, Great Lakes Works received a proposed administrative consent order (Order) from the MDEQ that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the facility. The Order identifies certain corrective actions desired by MDEQ to address the alleged violations and anticipates an undisclosed penalty amount. Great Lakes Works had previously initiated work on some of these actions and completed others. Costs to complete the remaining corrective actions requested by MDEQ are presently not determinable. One of the corrective actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has undertaken a project to remove historic basin sediments from these areas. $800,000 has been spent on the project as of December 31, 2005. Costs to complete the river basin project are estimated to be $1.2 million. Great Lakes Works intends to negotiate a settlement of this matter with MDEQ in 2006. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $13.0 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through June 30, 2005. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $385,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. Granite City Granite City Works received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004 for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occur when coke is pushed out of the ovens for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). The IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. The case is anticipated to be resolved by entering into a Consent Order in early 2006, which will include a revised pushing compliance plan and a penalty. IEPA has proposed a civil penalty of $175,000. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. 34 Table of Contents Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by Utah Department of Environmental Quality. In December 2005, a third party purchased the Geneva site and assumed Geneva Steel Companys rights and obligations under the asset sales agreement and the permit pursuant to a bankruptcy court order. U. S. Steel has reviewed environmental data concerning the site gathered by itself and third parties, has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations and has begun remediation on some areas of the site for which U. S. Steel has responsibility. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of remediation and post closure care of three hazardous waste impoundments to be $29.4 million. Other In February 2005, U. S. Steels lease for a third party to mine slag at the Gascola slag disposal site in Penn Hills, Pennsylvania was terminated. Current mining regulations require closure of the site. The cost to close the slag disposal site is estimated to be $2.8 million. This work will include contour of the highwalls and vegetative cover for the entire site. In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The Order allocated responsibility for remediation costs among U. S. Steel and two other parties. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $788,000, based on the agreed allocation factor of 26 percent. U. S. Steel is preparing a Remedial Action Plan (RAP) for the site for submittal to the North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural Resources (NCDENR) that will propose limited soil removal and monitored natural attenuation for groundwater beneath the site. The RAP is due to the NCDENR in April 2006. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its 50 percent share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.8 million. In 2005, KDHE and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service asserted a claim against U. S. Steel and SSB for natural resource damages at the site and nearby creek. The parties have agreed to settlement of this claim for a cash payment and U. S. Steels share is $247,875. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2006, are as follows: John J. Connelly 59 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 57 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer Gretchen R. Haggerty 50 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer David H. Lohr 52 Senior Vice PresidentEuropean Operations & President U. S. Steel Kosice Dan D. Sandman 57 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 56 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 58 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 51 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 35 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 57. As of January 31, 2006, there were 27,427 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment, and increased to $.10 per share effective with the June 2005 payment. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average closing price for U. S. Steels common stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of common shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2005, no unregistered shares were issued. 36 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table contains information about purchases by U. S. Steel of its equity securities during the period covered by this report. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased Average Price Paid per Share Total NumberOf SharesPurchased asPart ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans orPrograms Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under thePlans or Programs January 1 31, 2005 February 1 28, 2005 March 1 31, 2005 Quarter ended March 31, 2005 April 1 30, 2005 May 1 31, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 June 1 30, 2005 Quarter ended June 30, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 July 1 31, 2005 August 1 31, 2005 910,000 $ 42.04 910,000 7,090,000 September 1 30, 2005 300,000 $ 44.27 300,000 6,790,000 Quarter ended September 30, 2005 1,210,000 $ 42.59 1,210,000 6,790,000 October 1 31, 2005 200,000 $ 36.30 200,000 6,590,000 November 1 30, 2005 2,410,000 $ 40.15 2,410,000 4,180,000 December 1 31, 2005 2,000,000 $ 48.90 2,000,000 2,180,000 Quarter ended December 31, 2005 4,610,000 $ 43.78 4,610,000 2,180,000 With the exception of the shares repurchased in May 2005, the above shares were purchased pursuant to the U. S. Steel Common Stock Repurchase Program, which was announced on July 26, 2005 and allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. The above purchases were all made in the open market. On January 31, 2006, U. S. Steel announced the replacement of this repurchase program with a new program having the authority to purchase up to eight million shares of its common stock. It is expected that the purchases will be made from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions. The timing of such purchases will be determined by the company based upon a number of factors including the market price of United States Steel Corporation common stock; the availability and pursuit of strategic initiatives including investment and acquisition opportunities; operating cash flow and internal capital requirements; and general economic conditions in the United States and Europe. Of the shares repurchased in May 2005, 48,638 were purchased pursuant to the exercise by Non Officer Restricted Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan, and the remainder were purchased pursuant to the exercise by 2002 Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan. 37 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) Adjusted(a) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001(b) Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(c) $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 $ 6,949 $ 6,286 Income (loss) from operations(d) 1,439 1,625 (719 ) 123 (404 ) Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(d) 910 1,121 (363 ) 81 (211 ) Net income (loss)(d) $ 910 $ 1,135 $ (420 ) $ 81 $ (211 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) basic $ 7.87 $ 9.87 $ (3.67 ) $ 0.83 $ (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.72 (3.67 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Net income (loss)(e) basic 7.87 10.00 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.83 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Dividends paid(f) 0.38 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.55 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 9,822 $ 11,064 $ 7,897 $ 7,991 $ 8,332 Capitalization: Debt(g) $ 1,612 $ 1,371 $ 1,933 $ 1,434 $ 1,466 Stockholders equity 3,324 4,074 1,151 2,042 2,501 Total capitalization $ 4,936 $ 5,445 $ 3,084 $ 3,476 $ 3,967 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements and the Five Year Financial Summary. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation. On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The income statement for the year ended December 31, 2001 represents a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the sale of the mining assets, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. The increase in net sales from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of a $104 million impairment of receivables that was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected restructuring charges, higher pension and OPEB costs and increased compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. (e) See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (f) For year 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (g) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2002 to 2003 was mainly due to the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May 2003. 38 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the seventh largest steel producer in the world and the second largest integrated steel producer in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to implement our strategy to continue to increase our value added product mix; to expand our global business platform; to improve our capital structure and strengthen our balance sheet; to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets. In Europe, U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing European markets, and to invest in value added facilities, including an automotive hot dip galvanizing line that is currently under construction. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the sustainability of higher steel prices; the cost of purchased raw materials and energy; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has resulted in volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States in 2005 were lower than 2004 levels. Import levels may increase in 2006 depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, consumption in the United States versus other regions and foreign production levels. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on 39 Table of Contents historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2006. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting these rates, we utilize several Merrill Lynch Average AAA/AA Corporate Bond indexes and both the 30 year and the 10 year U. S. Treasury bond rates as a preliminary indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 5.75 percent to 5.50 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2006 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most non union benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2006. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $159 million in 2006. Total OPEB costs in 2006 are expected to be approximately $111 million. 40 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 1/2 percent change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and OPEB calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) (1/2%) 1/2% Expected return on plan assets Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension costs for 2006 $ 34 $ (34 ) Discount rate Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension & OPEB costs for 2006 $ 16 $ (17 ) Pension & OPEB liabilities at December 31, 2005 $ 430 $ (470 ) Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected OPEB costs for 2006 $ (8 ) $ 9 Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of its net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends, without regard to the one time repatriation in 2005, to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2005, net of the $300 million repatriation, amounted to approximately $1,276 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $400 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of 41 Table of Contents remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2005, total accruals for environmental remediation were $145 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. Change in Accounting Method During the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel changed its method of determining the cost of USSK inventories from the last in, first out (LIFO) method to the first in, first out (FIFO) method. Management considers the FIFO method to be preferable to the LIFO method for USSK because it creates consistency of the valuation method used for inventories within the USSE reportable segment and provides for comparability of the USSE segment with major international competitors. In accordance with FAS No. 154, prior period results have been adjusted to apply the new method retrospectively. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Segments During 2005, U. S. Steel had three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve domestic customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), container, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil Company LLC and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G Coatings Company L.P., which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with the former owner of USSB. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the USSB acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service center, appliance, container, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services and the management and development of real estate. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota and Delray Connecting Railroad Company, which were acquired from National. Prior to the sale on June 30, 2003 of U. S. Steels coal mines and related assets, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer values of steel rounds and bands supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs and may be adjusted quarterly if actual production costs warrant. For further information, see Note 6 to the Financial Statements. 42 Table of Contents Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales of U. S. Steel by segment for each of the last three years: (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2005 2004 2003(a) Flat rolled(b)(c) $ 8,813 $ 9,827 $ 6,401 USSE 3,336 2,839 1,817 Tubular 1,546 941 573 Straightline(c) 138 Total sales from reportable segments 13,695 13,607 8,929 Other Businesses(d) 344 368 399 Net sales $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Includes net sales from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. (d) Includes net sales from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business, and from the sale of coal prior to June 30, 2003, when U. S. Steel sold its coal mining business. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2005 versus Year Ended December 31, 2004 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 14 % 6 % 0 % 0 % 2 % 10 % USSE 2 % 14 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 6 % 52 % 5 % 0 % 1 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects 43 Table of Contents Total net sales in 2005 increased by $64 million compared to 2004. Sales for the Flat rolled segment were down 10 percent as the increases in Flat rolled average steel prices (up $43 per ton) were more than offset by lower sheet shipment volumes and lower trade shipments of coke. Sales for USSE increased by 18 percent mainly as a result of higher average steel prices (up $81 per ton). Tubular sales were up significantly due primarily to higher average prices (up $463 per ton), as well as increased shipment volumes and an improved product mix. Year Ended December 31, 2004 versus Year Ended December 31, 2003 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 12 % 34 % 4 % 0 % 4 % 54 % USSE 2 % 28 % 11 % 7 % 8 % 56 % Tubular 23 % 42 % 2 % 0 % 3 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects Total net sales in 2004 increased $4,647 million compared to 2003. Sales for the Flat rolled segment increased 54 percent mainly as a result of higher average realized prices (up $152 per ton), higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products; and higher sales on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill. Sales for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. USSE sales were up 56 percent mainly due to higher average realized prices (up $171 per ton), favorable changes in product mix and favorable foreign currency exchange rate effects. Sales for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. The 64 percent increase for Tubular was primarily due to higher average realized prices (up $233 per ton) and shipment volumes. Operating expenses Profit based union payments Results for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 included costs related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. All of these costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 % Change Allocated to segment results $ 115 $ 131 12 % Retiree benefit expenses 100 110 9 % Total $ 215 $ 241 11 % Payment amounts per the agreement with the USWA are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) to be contributed to the National Benefit Trust, the purpose of which (when established) is to assist National retirees with healthcare costs, based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item were calculated and recorded through the income statement in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. 44 Table of Contents Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $280 million in 2005, compared to $254 million in 2004 and $556 million in 2003. The costs in 2005, 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $23 million, $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The increase from 2004 to 2005 mainly reflected a lower asset base, which resulted in a higher amortization of net actuarial losses and a lower return on plan assets. Excluding the settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $109 million in 2005, $106 million in 2004 and $241 million in 2003. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $19 million in 2005, $18 million in 2004 and $15 million in 2003. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $698 million in 2005, compared to $739 million in 2004. The decline primarly reflected lower expenses for stock based and executive compensation, partially offset by higher pension costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower stock based compensation and lower OPEB costs. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for further details. 45 Table of Contents Income (loss) from operations:(a) Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(b) (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 Flat rolled(c) $ 602 $ 1,185 $ (54 ) USSE 502 439 214 Tubular 528 197 (25 ) Straightline(c) (70 ) Total income from reportable segments 1,632 1,821 65 Other Businesses 43 58 15 Segment income from operations $ 1,675 $ 1,879 $ 80 Retiree benefit expenses (267 ) (257 ) (107 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain 70 Stock appreciation rights 1 (23 ) (75 ) Workforce reduction charges (20 ) (17 ) (621 ) Environmental remediation at previously sold facility (20 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Asset impairments (57 ) Litigation items (25 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,439 $ 1,625 $ (719 ) (a) See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. (b) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. 46 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled segment income in 2005 declined by $583 million compared to 2004. The decrease primarily resulted from lower steel and commercial coke shipment volumes and higher costs for raw materials, outages, energy and labor. These were partially offset by increased prices for flat rolled products and higher transfer values for steel rounds supplied to Tubular. During 2005, the cost to produce tube rounds has increased dramatically and the transfer price for tube rounds supplied to Tubular, which had been established at the beginning of 2005 based on projected costs, was increased by $53 per ton effective April 1, 2005, by an additional $20 per ton effective July 1, 2005, and by an additional $46 per ton effective October 1, 2005. Capability utilization in 2005 was adversely affected by the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace as well as lower demand levels early in the year as a result of high service center and end customer inventory levels. Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. 47 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income of $502 million for 2005 increased by $63 million from 2004 due mainly to higher prices, partially offset by increased raw material and outage costs. USSE segment income for 2004 was $439 million, compared to income of $214 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. Capability utilization declined in 2003 and 2004 primarily due to the inclusion of USSB as one of its two blast furnaces was not operational until the third quarter of 2005. Capability utilization was also adversely affected in 2005 by the rebuild of our largest European blast furnace in Slovakia and in 2004 by operational difficulties with a blast furnace early in the year. 48 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular Tubular segment income of $528 million in 2005 reflected an improvement of $331 million compared to 2004. The increase resulted mainly from higher prices, partially offset by higher costs for steel rounds as discussed in Segment results for Flat rolled. Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of steel rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which were transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. Results for Other Businesses The decline in income from Other Businesses from $58 million in 2004 to $43 million in 2005 was mainly due to lower results at iron ore pellet operations due to lower trade sales and increased costs for natural gas, partially offset by higher intersegment sales and by improved results for real estate activities and transportation services. Other Businesses recorded income of $58 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services, partially offset by lower results for real estate activities. Items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain of $70 million in 2005 resulted from a personal property tax settlement with the city of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana (Gary property tax settlement) and reflected the reversal of accruals in excess of the settlement amount of $44 million. 49 Table of Contents Stock appreciation rights resulted in a credit to compensation expense of $1 million in 2005 and charges of $23 million and $75 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued from 1995 through 2003 and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. Workforce reduction charges of $20 million in 2005 reflected special termination benefits for a voluntary early retirement program offered to certain employees at USSK. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain coal seam gas interests and from the sale in June 2003 of our coal mines and related assets. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and recognition of certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Net interest and other financial costs Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(a) (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Net interest and other financial costs $ 72 $ 156 $ 167 Foreign currency losses (gains) 80 (36 ) (54 ) Adjustment from Gary property tax settlement (25 ) Adjustment related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes (38 ) (17 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 33 Total net interest and other financial costs $ 127 $ 115 $ 96 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Net interest and other financial costs in 2005 included a favorable adjustment of $25 million related to the Gary property tax settlement. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 also included a $33 million charge resulting from the early extinguishment of certain senior debt. Excluding these items, the $32 million increase in 2005 primarily reflected an unfavorable change in foreign currency effects. This was partially offset by lower debt levels resulting from the retirement of USSK long term debt in November 2004 and the redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004, higher interest income and lower interest on tax related liabilities. Excluding the previously identified items, the small increase in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected a smaller foreign currency gain, partially offset by higher interest income and 50 Table of Contents lower interest on tax related liabilities. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which was the functional currency of both prior to January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of our operations outside the United States was the U.S. dollar through December 31, 2005. As of January 1, 2006, the functional currency for USSK and USSB was changed from the U.S. dollar to the euro primarily because of significant changes in economic facts and circumstances as a result of Slovakias entry into the European Union and the subsequent entry of the Slovak koruna into the Exchange Rate Mechanizm II in preparation for Slovakias adoption of the euro. Other factors that contributed to this change are the evolution of USSE into an autonomous business segment, the settlement of its U.S. dollar denominated debt and the establishment of euro based debt facilities. This change in functional currency will be applied on a prospective basis. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2005 was $365 million, compared to $356 million in 2004 and a benefit of $452 million in 2003. The provision in 2005 included a charge of $37 million resulting from the $95 million pre tax gain from the Gary property tax settlement and a $16 million charge resulting from the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. During 2005, a current tax provision was booked for USSK because the provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 50 percent of its tax liability for years 2005 through 2009, compared to a 100 percent credit in previous years. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefit in 2003 included a favorable effect relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million. The tax provisions in all three years were primarily the result of pre tax results from domestic operations. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets of $472 million. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2005, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $14 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $81 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the cumulative losses experienced since the acquisition of USSB. If USSB generates sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $58 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2005 was $910 million, compared with $1,135 million in 2004 and with a net loss of $420 million in 2003. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2005 increased $480 million from year end 2004 primarily due to increased cash balances (see Cash Flows) and higher inventories, partially offset by a reduction in outstanding accounts receivable. The increase in inventories was mainly due to higher quantities of raw materials. The decrease in accounts receivables primarily resulted from lower sales in the fourth quarter of 2005, compared to the fourth quarter of 2004, due mainly to lower prices and shipment volumes for flat rolled products. 51 Table of Contents FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability was required for this plan. Consequently, entries were recorded that eliminated prepaid pensions, increased the intangible pension asset by $250 million and resulted in a net charge to equity of $1.37 billion, which increased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2005 increased $171 million from year end 2004 and long term deferred income tax liabilities were eliminated, primarily due to the establishment of federal and state deferred tax assets in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2005 increased $214 million from year end 2004 mainly due to the increase in short term debt and current maturities of long term debt, which primarily reflects amounts drawn against a one year revolving credit facility at USSK. The facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation of $300 million in foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities of $1,218 million in 2005 and $1,400 million in 2004 was more than adequate to cover investing and financing activities. In 2003, net cash provided from operating activities was $577 million, which was insufficient to cover the acquisitions of National and USSB. The shortfall was covered by the issuance of long term debt and preferred stock. Cash from operating activities was reduced by payments related to employee benefits as shown in the table below. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Employee Benefit Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ (130 ) $ (295 ) $ (16 ) OPEB payments not funded by trusts (213 ) (186 ) (60 ) Contributions to VEBA(a) (60 ) (30 ) Contributions to other OPEB trusts (22 ) (4 ) (19 ) Payments to multiemployer pension plans(b) (28 ) (50 )(c) Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts (24 ) (44 ) (15 ) Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ (477 ) $ (609 ) $ (110 ) (a) All were voluntary except for $10 million in 2005. (b) Primarily the Steelworkers Pension Trust. (c) Includes $11 million related to 2003 hours worked. 52 Table of Contents Capital expenditures were $741 million in 2005, $579 million in 2004 and $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $492 million in 2005 included spending for the major rebuild of the largest U. S. Steel blast furnace at Gary Works, for environmental projects at our iron ore operations and for coke oven thru wall repairs. European expenditures of $249 million included spending at USSK for air emission reduction projects for cokemaking and steelmaking facilities, for a new automotive galvanizing line, for construction of an air separation plant and for blast furnace upgrades; and spending at USSB for the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Domestic expenditures in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Tubular Operations and other smaller projects, the most significant of which were at Gary Works, Mon Valley Works and Minntac. European expenditures in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. 53 Table of Contents U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2005, totaled $82 million. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2005, was $53 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $156 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2005, leaving a balance of $1 million under this commitment. Capital expenditures for 2006 are expected to be approximately $700 million, reflecting approximately $440 million for domestic operations and $260 million for European operations. Domestic projects include the completion of the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace at Gary Works, acquisition of mobile, mining and other production equipment, and coke oven thru wall replacements at Clairton Works. We are also evaluating alternatives to add cokemaking capacity and to enhance energy recovery efficiency. Projects in Slovakia include continued spending for a new automotive galvanizing line, and continuing work on air emission reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include preparatory work for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace in 2007. The preceding statement concerning expected 2006 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2005 reflected amounts drawn against a USSK credit agreement that was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Common stock repurchased reflected cash utilized to repurchase 5.8 million shares of U. S. Steel common stock during 2005 in the open market. A U. S. Steel common stock repurchase program, which was announced during the third quarter of 2005, allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. On January 31, 2006, the Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004, which were used for the early redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004. This redemption is included in repayment of long term debt, which also reflects the retirement of long term USSK debt in November 2004. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock Series B Preferred Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2005 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.08 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2004 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2003 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 1.206 $ Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average market price for U. S. Steels common 54 Table of Contents stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Liquidity U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement to sell a revolving interest in eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries through a commercial paper conduit program with funding under the facility up to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. The Receivables Purchase Agreement expires on November 28, 2006. Qualifying accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. While the Receivables Purchase Agreement expires in November 2006, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed in the following paragraph and other debt obligations, any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 22, 2006. As of December 31, 2005, $500 million was available to be sold under this facility. U. S. Steel has a revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by a lien on our domestic inventory and receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement (Inventory Facility). The Inventory Facility contains restrictive covenants, many of which apply only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million, including a fixed charge coverage ratio test. In addition, a $100 million availability block may apply beginning May 1, 2008 until the 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes) are repaid, refinanced or defeased. Interest on borrowings is calculated based on either LIBOR or the agents prime rate using spreads based on facility availability as defined in the agreement. Although there were no amounts drawn against this facility at December 31, 2005, availability was $594 million due to $6 million of letters of credit issued against the facility. This facility expires in October 2009. At December 31, 2005, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. USSB was the sole obligor on a EUR 9.3 million committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility expired on September 27, 2005. On September 28, 2005, USSB entered into a new EUR 25 million facility (which approximated $30 million at December 31, 2005), which is secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods and expires September 28, 2008. At December 31, 2005, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. USSK is the sole obligor on a EUR 195 million revolving credit facility (which approximated $231 million at December 31, 2005) that expires in December 2006. The facility bears interest at EURIBOR plus 20 basis points. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on undrawn amounts. At December 31, 2005, this facility was fully drawn. This facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes, and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). 55 Table of Contents On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.5 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $114 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4 million during 2005, and does not expect any material changes in 2006. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2005, in the amount of $2 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as $556 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases and $41 million relating to certain operating leases, may be declared immediately due and payable. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2005: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents(a) $ 1,452 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 56 Amounts available under USSB credit facility 30 Total estimated liquidity(b) $ 2,632 (a) Excludes $27 million of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. (b) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U.S.Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (a) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U. S. Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (b) Excludes $27 million and $16 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity has increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. 57 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2005, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2006 2007through2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,613 $ 249 $ 394 $ 413 $ 557 Operating leases(b) 376 106 121 52 97 Capital commitments(c) 135 49 33 53 Environmental commitments(c) 145 26 119 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e) 29 51 (e) Other postretirement benefits (f) 225 530 500 (f) Total contractual obligations $ 2,269 (g) $ 684 $ 1,129 $ 965 $ 826 (g) (a) See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2006 through 2010 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2005, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $130 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $24 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in 2006. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $13 million to pension plans not funded by trusts in 2006. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension 58 Table of Contents plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust to be established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2005, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2006 2007through 2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 83 $ 75 $ $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 16 4 12 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 34 34 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 10 8 1 1 Contingent liabilities: Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 3,886 2,507 1,078 195 106 Total commercial commitments $ 4,179 $ 2,594 $ 1,079 $ 195 $ 311 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 19 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works co generation facility in the second quarter of 2006; therefore, the agreement for the supply of electric power (previously expiring in 2011) will be terminated. U. S. Steel has an off balance sheet arrangement for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. This operating lease arrangement is with a special purpose trust (Trust). The Trust financed the construction of the facility and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficiaries of the Trust. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of this entity and there is no assurance that U. S. Steel will purchase the facility at lease expiration. U. S. Steels transactions with the Trust are limited to the operating lease agreement, and the associated lease expense is included in cost of sales on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate this Trust because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. 59 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement resulted in an increase of approximately $45 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance in order to meet environmental standards as established from time to time by Slovak law. One current compliance project is a dedusting system 60 Table of Contents for Steel Shop No. 2 to meet air emission standards for particulates. These standards are applicable January 1, 2007 and USSK is attempting to complete the project by this deadline; however, project completion is currently anticipated for the first quarter 2007. Failure to meet the applicable deadline could result in the imposition of corrective measures by the Slovak Ministry of Environment (Ministry). While the United States has not ratified the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC), in order to provide EU member states a mechanism for fulfilling their Kyoto commitments, has established its own CO2 limits for every EU member state. In 2004, the EC approved a national allocation plan for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias originally proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent, and following that decision the Ministry imposed an 8 percent reduction to the amount of CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. Subsequently, USSK filed legal actions agains the EC and the Ministry challenging these reductions. In addition, USSK is evaluating a number of alternatives ranging from purchasing CO2 allowances to reducing steel production, and it is not currently possible to predict the impact of these decisions on USSK. However, the actual shortfall of allowances for the initial allocation period (2005 through 2007) will depend upon a number of internal and external variables and the effect of that shortfall on USSK cannot be predicted at this time. Based on the fair value of the anticipated shortfall of allowances related to production in 2005, a long term other liability of $4 million has been charged to income and recorded on the balance sheet. Domestically, while ratification of the Kyoto Protocol does not seem likely in the near term, there remains the possibility that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may impose limitations on greenhouse gases. The impact on U. S. Steels domestic operations cannot be estimated. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Domestic: Capital $ 66 $ 24 $ 8 Compliance Operating & maintenance 305 241 206 Remediation(b) 23 18 38 Total Domestic $ 394 $ 283 $ 252 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 97 $ 22 Compliance Operating & maintenance 12 8 10 Remediation(b) 3 3 3 Total USSE $ 82 $ 108 $ 35 Total U. S. Steel $ 476 $ 391 $ 287 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 18 percent of total capital expenditures in 2005, 21 percent in 2004 and 10 percent in 2003. Compliance expenditures represented 3 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2005, 2 percent in 2004 and 3 percent in 2003. Remediation spending during 2003 to 2005 was mainly related to remediation 61 Table of Contents activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2005, U. S. Steel accrued $49 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2005, was $145 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2006. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $113 million in 2006, $61 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2006 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $76 million in 2007, including $60 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. The Senate Judiciary Committee has recommended to the Senate legislation that, if enacted, would create an asbestos trust fund that would provide benefits to asbestos claimants funded by payments over 30 years of 62 Table of Contents $136 billion from companies and their insurers that have been involved in asbestos litigation, including U. S. Steel along with thousands of others. The legislation would provide an administrative system to process asbestos claims instead of resolution through judicial proceedings. The amount that a company would be required to pay under the current version of the legislation would depend upon its placement among several tiers and sub tiers, based upon corporate revenue and prior expenditures related to asbestos defense costs, settlements and judgments. Management estimates that if the legislation were adopted in the form proposed by the Judiciary Committee, the annual cost to U. S. Steel would be somewhat greater than the historical cost of asbestos defense and settlement. It is unclear whether any legislation will be adopted and any final legislation may be substantially different than the version recommended by the Judiciary Committee. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional detail concerning asbestos litigation, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. Outlook for 2006 The first quarter of 2006 looks positive for our domestic and European markets. Service center and end customer inventories are balanced and we expect continued strength in the energy markets served by our Tubular segment. For Flat rolled, first quarter 2006 shipments are expected to improve compared to the fourth quarter of 2005 due to the restart of the Gary No. 14 blast furnace, with prices at or above the fourth quarter level. We expect higher raw material costs to be largely offset by reduced energy and outage costs. For U. S. Steel Europe, first quarter shipments are expected to increase and average realized prices and costs should be consistent with fourth quarter levels. However, first quarter results will be negatively affected by production curtailments at Serbian operations as a result of natural gas supply disruptions and could also be negatively affected by potential job related actions by a labor union at USSB that is dissatisfied with the 2006 wage agreement, which became effective upon approval of the other unions. Shipments and average realized prices for the Tubular segment in the first quarter of 2006 are expected to be in line with the fourth quarter. First quarter 2006 results for Other Businesses should decline from the fourth quarter due primarily to normal seasonal variations at our iron ore operations in Minnesota. Total costs for pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately $300 million in 2006, compared to $390 million in 2005. Accounting Standards In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123R. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value 63 Table of Contents of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved a new rule that delayed the effective date of FAS 123R. Except for this deferral of the effective date, the guidance in FAS 123R is unchanged. Under the SECs rule, FAS 123R is now effective for U. S. Steel for annual rather than interim periods that begin after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply this Statement to all awards granted on or after January 1, 2006 and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after January 1, 2006 for the portion of outstanding awards for which requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for proforma disclosures. Currently, U. S. Steel expects that the effect of adopting this Statement on 2006 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $10 million. In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. This Interpretation clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists. U. S. Steel adopted the provisions of this Interpretation in the second quarter of 2005. There were no financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Interpretation. In May 2005, the FASB issued FAS 154, which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. FAS 154 eliminates the requirement to include the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle in the income statement and instead requires that changes in accounting principle be retroactively applied. FAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and correction of errors made on or after January 1, 2006, with early adoption permitted. U. S. Steel began applying the provisions of this statement in the fourth quarter of 2005. In February 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. This Statement resolves issues addressed in Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. D1, Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets, and is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect any financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Statement. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its market risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in income from operations. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain transactions, primarily related to forecasted natural gas purchases. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the natural gas purchase is settled. Once the purchase is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. 64 Table of Contents Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. U. S. Steel had no open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2005. Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in closing commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004 are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Assuming a Hypothetical PriceDecrease of: 2005 2004 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Incremental Decrease in Income Before Taxes: Zinc $ 2.9 $ 7.2 Natural Gas $ 1.8 $ 4.4 Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2005, may cause future pretax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $7 million in 2005, compared to gains of $4 million in 2004 and $1 million in 2003. These gains were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For carrying amount and fair value of derivative commodity instruments, see Note 26 to the Financial Statements. 65 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2005 and 2004 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 18 $ $ 7 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 1,568 $ 36 $ 1,419 $ 50 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2005, and 2004, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. (d) For additional information, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $36 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $23.1 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $61.6 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2005 euro forward rates would result in a $8.5 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 66 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel employees totaled approximately 21,000 domestically and approximately 25,000 in Europe. Most domestic hourly employees of U. S. Steels steel, coke and iron ore pellet facilities are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the USWA, which expires in September 2008 and contains a no strike provision. At Granite City Works, employees who work in the cokemaking and blast furnace operations are represented by the International Chemical Workers Union; and a small number of employees are represented by the Bricklayers and Laborers International unions. Agreements with these unions expire in November and December 2008, and also contain no strike provisions. Domestic hourly employees engaged in transportation activities are represented by the USWA and other unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in December 2007, which is subject to annual wage negotiations. Most employees at USSB are represented by three unions and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in November 2006, which is also subject to annual wage negotiations. On February 10, 2006, USSB and two of the three unions agreed to the hourly base earnings for 2006 and signed an annex to the collective bargaining agreement. As of the date of this filing, the largest labor union at USSB had not agreed to the negotiated 2006 hourly base earnings or signed the annex. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. U. S. Steel posts its annual report on Form 10 K, its quarterly reports on Form 10 Q and its proxy statement to its web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). U. S. Steel also posts all press releases and earnings releases to its web site. 21 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles and the charters of the Audit & Finance Committee, Compensation & Organization Committee and Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 4801). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income (loss) by reportable segments and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 6 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary on pages F 60 and F 61. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is cyclical and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows general economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in various smaller geographic areas. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess world supply. This has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness, which have not been offset by commensurate price increases during periods of economic strength. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. Rapidly growing demand and supply in China and other developing economies may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years steel consumption in China and other developing economies such as India has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by developing plans to rapidly increase steel production capability in these countries. Steel production, especially in China, has been expanding rapidly and could be well in excess of Chinese demand depending on continuing demand growth rates. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any significant Chinese capacity excess could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if excess production is exported to other markets. Increases in prices and limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. Steel producers require large amounts of raw materials iron ore or other iron containing material, steel scrap, coke and coal for integrated producers such as U. S. Steel, and scrap for mini mill producers. Both integrated and mini mill producers consume large amounts of energy. Over the last several years, prices for raw materials and energy, in particular natural gas, have increased significantly. In many cases these price increases have been a greater percentage than price increases for the sale of steel products. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in receiving sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner, resulting in production curtailments. These production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins and may continue to do so in the future. 22 Table of Contents Increased imports of steel products into the U.S. could negatively affect domestic steel prices and demand levels and reduce profitability of domestic producers. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 25 percent of the domestic steel market in 2005, 26 percent in 2004 and 19 percent in 2003. Foreign competitors typically have lower labor costs, and are often owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Import levels may also be impacted by decisions of government agencies under U.S. trade laws. Increases in future levels of imported steel could reduce future market prices and demand levels for domestic steel. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Domestic steel producers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the European Union and Japan are generally comparable to domestic standards, other nations have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to unplanned equipment failures. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Availability of supplies could also be affected by logistical disruptions (shortages of barges or rail cars). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. Risk Factors concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Many lawsuits have been filed against U. S. Steel involving asbestos related injuries, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and cash flow. U. S. Steel is a defendant in a large number of cases in which approximately 8,400 claimants actively allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. Many of these cases involve multiple claimants (often hundreds or thousands) and defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred). It is possible that we may experience large judgments against us in the future that could have an impact upon the number of future claims filed against us and on the amount of future settlements, which would have an adverse impact on our profitability and cash flow. Our retiree employee health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans covering most of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 114,000 current retirees and beneficiaries are receiving pension and or medical benefits. U. S. Steels underfunded benefit obligations for retiree medical and life insurance were $2.3 billion at year end 2005. Most of these underfunded obligations are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Other postretirement benefit expense is expected to be approximately $111 million in 2006. 23 Table of Contents Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance plans and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Several domestic competitors provide defined contribution health care plans with contributions increased based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. Our defined benefit pension plan costs are higher than those of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our profitability and cash flow. We have noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering many of our domestic employees and former employees upon their retirement. The funded status of these plans declined from an overfunded position of $1.2 billion at year end 2001 to an underfunded position of $606 million at year end 2005. Minimum contributions to these plans is controlled under ERISA and other government regulations and substantial cash contributions may be required. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Pension benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Most domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit pension plans, but may provide defined contribution pension plans with contributions increasing based upon profitability. This will provide these competitors with a significant competitive advantage during periods of low profits. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our profitability and cash flow. U. S. Steel is currently involved in approximately 60 remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to third parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Numerous domestic competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Domestic competitors that have obtained relief under the Bankruptcy Code may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors applicable to U. S. Steel The terms of our indebtedness may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Under the terms of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due 2008 and our 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010 (collectively, the Senior Notes), we are not able to pay dividends on capital stock unless we meet certain restricted payment tests. The terms of our indebtedness and our accounts receivable program contain restrictive provisions that may limit our flexibility. We have Senior Notes outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $726 million as of December 31, 2005. The Senior Notes impose significant restrictions on us such as limits on additional borrowings and certain investments and the use of funds from asset sales. Our $600 million revolving credit agreement secured by inventory prohibits us from selling certain principal properties and imposes additional restrictions if the amount available to be borrowed under that agreement is less than $100 million. Such restrictions include maintaining a fixed charge coverage ratio and limitations on capital expenditures and investments. The Senior Notes, the revolving credit agreement and some of our other loan facilities and leases have provisions that may cause a default under one of these agreements to become a default under the others. These covenants may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 24 Table of Contents Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. Any downgrade in our credit ratings would make raising capital more difficult, would increase the cost of future borrowings and would affect the terms on which we purchase goods and services. In addition, the fees payable under our receivables sales program would increase and the amount of receivables eligible for sale could be reduced. Change in control clauses may require us to immediately purchase or repay debt. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, inventory facility and various other loan documents, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately purchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. We may not have the financial resources to make these purchases and repayments, and a failure to purchase or repay such indebtedness would trigger cross acceleration clauses under the Senior Notes and other indebtedness. We have deferred tax assets that we may not be able to realize. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net federal, foreign and state deferred tax assets of $486 million. Although management believes that it is more likely than not that future operating results and tax planning strategies generating sufficient future taxable income can be utilized to realize the net deferred tax assets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate such results or implement these strategies. Our international operations expose us to uncertainties and risks from abroad, which could negatively affect our results of operations. USSK, located in the Slovak Republic, and USSB, located in Serbia, constitute nearly 28% of our total raw steel production capability, and accounted for 24% of net sales for 2005. Both USSK and USSB are subject to economic conditions and political factors in Europe, which if changed could negatively affect their results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSK and USSB are also subject to foreign currency exchange risks. Any future international acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Natural gas supplies to USSB may be curtailed and such curtailments would have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows. USSB is dependent upon availability of natural gas in Serbia, which is dependent upon a single pipeline. Serbia has experienced major curtailments during periods of peak demand in Eastern Europe. Such curtailments have forced USSB to interrupt steel production and finishing operations in the past and this could recur in the future. The carbon dioxide emission limits established by the European Commission may limit the amount of steel that can be produced at USSK and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. The European Commission (EC) has established carbon dioxide (CO2) emission limits for EU member countries. Under this program the Slovak Ministry of the Environment has reduced the amount of CO2 that USSK may emit. USSK may be required to reduce its production or purchase emission credits, either of which may have a negative impact on income and cash flow. Our business requires substantial debt service, contingent obligations, capital investment, operating lease, capital commitments and maintenance expenditures that we may be unable to fulfill. With approximately $1.6 billion of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2005, we have substantial debt service requirements. Interest and other financial costs, excluding foreign currency losses, interest income, capitalized 25 Table of Contents interest and the adjustment from the Gary property tax settlement, totaled $124 million in 2005 and are expected to be about the same in 2006; however, interest and other financial costs will change with changes to our capital structure. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2005, total capital expenditures were $2.2 billion. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program over a period commencing with the acquisition date and ending on December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2005, the remaining commitment under this program was $53 million. At December 31, 2005, our domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $82 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $376 million under operating leases. In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, raw steel and steel finishing production facilities, including periodic relines or rebuilds of our seventeen blast furnaces. As of December 31, 2005, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $133 million, guarantees of approximately $10 million of indebtedness for unconsolidated entities and contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements of approximately $3.9 billion, plus contingencies under the sale of our mining assets of approximately $79 million. As the general partner of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P., we are obligated to fund cash shortfalls incurred by that partnership but may withdraw as the general partner if we are required to fund in excess of $150 million in operating cash shortfalls. As of December 31, 2005, we were also contingently liable for $2 million of debt and other obligations of Marathon. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. U. S. Steels insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insurance retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. The collective bargaining agreement with the USWA contains provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USWA, grants the USWA a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the collective bargaining agreement and requires us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities. That agreement also restricts our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further requires that the ratio of non USWA employees to USWA employees at our domestic facilities not exceed 1 to 5. Strikes, work stoppages and customer concern about the possibility of strikes, particularly upon the expiration of our major domestic collective bargaining agreement, could adversely impact our relationships with our customers which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, mini mill producers and certain foreign competitors and producers of comparable products do not have unionized work forces. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USWA, foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. U. S. Steel is involved in multiemployer plans covering pensions and other postretirement benefit costs. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of these plans, which will have a negative effect on our cash flows. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of these plans. 26 Table of Contents U. S. Steel is subject to work stoppages as a result of periodic labor negotiations at facilities in Europe. Most employees at USSK and USSB are represented by unions pursuant to agreements that expire in December 2007 and November 2006, respectively, both of which are subject to annual wage rate negotiations. Any strike or work stoppage upon expiration of the current agreements or as a result of the inability to agree on annual wage rates could have significant negative effects on results of operations. Customer payment defaults could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries and could experience financial difficulties in times of economic downturn. In some cases, these difficulties may result in bankruptcy filings or cessation of operations. If customers experiencing financial problems default on paying amounts owed to us, we may not be able to collect these amounts or recognize expected revenue. Any material payment defaults by our customers could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with acquisitions. The success of recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions will depend substantially on our ability to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Recent acquisitions in the steel industry have involved prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our recent acquisitions. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following table lists U. S. Steels properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin Mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin Mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Works Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Clairton 1314B Partnership(a) Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Sheets; Coke Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Sheets; Tubular ProCoil Company LLC Canton, Michigan Steel processing; Warehousing USS POSCO Industries(b) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin Mill PRO TEC Coating Company(b) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(b) Dearborn, Michigan Electrogalvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(b) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(b) Jackson, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy ProcessingCompany(b) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(b) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(b) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania Transportation services International Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Kosice Kosice, Slovakia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Tubular; Coke Walzwerke Finow GmbH Finow, Germany Precision steel tubes; Specialty shaped sections U. S. Steel Balkan Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Sheets; Tin Mill; Strip mill plate; Limestone (a) A consolidated partnership in which U. S. Steel owns less than 100 percent (b) Equity investee With the exception of properties acquired from National on May 20, 2003 and our joint ventures, U. S. Steel or its predecessors have owned most of its domestic properties for at least 30 years with no material adverse claims asserted. In connection with the National acquisition, U. S. Steel obtained title reports and insurance covering each of the properties obtained. In addition, the Bankruptcy Court order provided that U. S. Steel acquired all of the assets free and clear of any liabilities, rights restrictions or other interests. In the case of the real property and buildings of USSK, certified copies of the property registrations were obtained and examined by local counsel prior to the acquisition. In the case of USSB, the Serbian bankruptcy law provides that USSB acquired its assets free and clear of any prior claims. 28 Table of Contents Several steel production facilities are leased. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease expiring in 2012, with an option to purchase or to extend the lease. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. This facility was subleased to the Clairton 1314B Partnership until July 2, 2004. A ladle metallurgy and caster facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007, with an option to purchase at the end of the lease term. The electrolytic galvanizing facility at Ecorse, Michigan is subject to a lease expiring in 2007. In 2005, U. S. Steel made an irrevocable decision to purchase the electrolytic galvanizing facility at lease expiration. At Gary Works and the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has supply agreements for various utility services with third parties who own cogeneration facilities located on U. S. Steel property. The Gary Works agreement expires in 2011 and includes a fixed buyout provision at the option of U. S. Steel. In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works cogeneration facility in the second quarter of 2006. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Notes 16 and 25 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. Asbestos Litigation U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. These claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of the Great Lakes Fleet or Intercoastal Fleet, former operations of U. S. Steel; (2) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); and (3) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel. While U. S. Steel has excess casualty insurance, these policies have multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has not received any payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. In most cases, this excess casualty insurance is the only insurance applicable to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 150 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many such cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or its products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in 29 Table of Contents no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. In 2005, approximately 42 percent of the cases filed against U. S. Steel stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed (jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000). Approximately 33 percent did not specify any damages at all, approximately 25 percent alleged damages of $1 million and less than half of one percent alleged damages exceeding $10 million. Historically, over 90 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing its potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where it believes litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. At December 31, 2002, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,100 active claims outstanding. In 2003, except for the aberrant result in the Madison County case referred to in the following paragraph, U. S. Steel settled 83 claims for a total of approximately $4.6 million, and had a total of 2,038 claims dismissed or otherwise resolved and added 514 new cases (or 2,856 new claims). At December 31, 2003, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 14,800 active claims outstanding. During 2004, U. S. Steel paid approximately $14.6 million in settlements. These settlements and voluntary and involuntary dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 5,300 claims. New case filings added 1,464 claims. At December 31, 2004, U. S. Steel had a total of approximately 11,000 active claims outstanding. During 2005, U. S. Steel paid approximately $11 million in settlements. These settlements, along with review of case docket information for certain states and voluntary and involuntary dismissals, resulted in the disposition of approximately 3,800 claims. New case filings added approximately 1,200 claims. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. Management views the verdict and resulting settlement in the Madison County case as aberrational, and believes that the likelihood of similar results in other cases is remote, although not impossible. U. S. Steel has not experienced any material adverse change in its ability to resolve pending claims as a result of the Madison County settlement. The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it believes it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. Among the reasons that U. S. Steel cannot reasonably estimate the number and nature of claims against it is that the vast majority of pending claims against it allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse 30 Table of Contents effect on the Companys financial condition. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that U. S. Steel has been subject to a total of approximately 34,000 asbestos claims over the past 14 years that have been administratively dismissed or are inactive due to the failure of the plaintiffs to present any medical evidence supporting their claims; (2) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has generally declined; (3) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (4) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals, including such matters since the Madison County jury verdict and settlement in March 2003. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2005, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 17 CERCLA sites. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 7 of these sites will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and for 8 of these sites will be under $100,000. At the remaining two sites, management expects that U. S. Steels share in the remaining cleanup costs at each site will exceed $1 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. The following is a summary of the status of these sites: 1. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (PADER) placed the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pa. on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation (RI), which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel estimates its future liability at the site to be $6.8 million. 2. In November 1996, U. S. Steel received a CERCLA 104(e) request from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requesting information on the former waste oil processing site named 31 Table of Contents Breslube Penn located in Coraopolis, PA. U. S. Steel joined a PRP group and entered into an Administrative Order on Consent along with six other PRPs to conduct a RI/Feasibility Study (FS). The RI has been completed and the FS, which was submitted to EPA, is currently being reviewed by EPA and PADEP. The total cost to implement a remediation project is not presently determinable. U. S. Steels share of the costs for this project will depend upon EPAs selection of an alternative from the range of alternatives presented in the FS and the number of PRPs available to allocate the costs. U. S. Steel anticipates that more PRPs may be added to the group by EPA before the costs of remediation are allocated. U. S. Steel has an accrual of $1.0 million for this site. In addition, there are 12 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 43 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 5 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 16 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 9 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $10 million at one site, in excess of $15 million at two sites and in excess of $25 million at one site. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining 9 sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. Contemporaneously, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel will pay the public trustees $1.0 million at the end of the remediation project for future ecological monitoring costs, and U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase and restore several parcels of property that have been conveyed to the trustees. As of December 31, 2005, project costs have amounted to $52.5 million. U. S. Steel anticipates doing additional dredging at a cost of $8.4 million. U. S. Steel is presently in discussions with the dredging contractor and intends to meet with EPA in an effort to reduce the anticipated cost of this work. In addition to the sediment remediation project, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $1.3 million. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites located on plant property with total costs estimated to be $19.0 million. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel paid its entire share of the assessment costs and $4.5 million of its share of the restoration costs to the public trustees in 2005. A balance of $16 million in restoration costs remains to be paid by U. S. Steel to complete its settlement obligations. 32 Table of Contents On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for solid waste management units throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI) and a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) at Gary Works. All remaining Phase I work plans have been approved by EPA and reports of field investigation findings have been submitted to EPA. Two Phase II RFI work plans have been submitted to EPA for approval. Three self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel has spent approximately $21.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. The cost to implement the remaining field investigations for the submitted work plans is estimated to be $2.8 million. Until they are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary. On November 30, 1999, IDEM issued a notice of violation (NOV) alleging various air violations at Gary Works, including opacity violations at the No. 1 BOP and pushing violations at the four coke batteries. On August 21, 2002, IDEM issued a revised NOV which supercedes the 1999 NOV and includes alleged violations at the blast furnaces, steel shops and coke batteries from 1998 to 2002. On December 27, 2005, IDEM issued a NOV which includes alleged violations at the No. 8 Blast Furnace and the Coke Batteries for the period of 2002 through 2005. The cost of the settlement of this matter is currently indeterminable. An agreed order is being negotiated that may include a pushing compliance plan. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a solid waste management unit (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After its acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel intends to submit a remediation alternative to IDEM recommending an in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.1 million. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform a RFI and a CMS at its Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $452,000. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997, under which U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two Supplemental Environmental Projects (SEPs) at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works, with the approval of EPA. The first Phase I RFI work plan was approved and field sampling for the work plan was completed in 2004. U. S. Steel submitted a Phase I RFI Report to ADEM in February 2005. The cost to complete this study is estimated to be $102,000. In addition, U. S. Steel has developed a corrective measure implementation plan for remediation of Upper Opossum Creek. The cost to U. S. Steel for implementing this plan is estimated to be $3.6 million. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc. whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $418,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. Implementation of the Phase I fieldwork for Ensley commenced in June 2004. The cost to complete this study is approximately $338,000. 33 Table of Contents Lorain Tubular Operations In 1997, USS/Kobe Steel Company (USS/Kobe), a former joint venture between U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. (Kobe) with steelmaking, bar producing and tubular operations in Lorain, Ohio, was the subject of a multi media audit by EPA that included an air, water and hazardous waste compliance review. The tubular operations at Lorain are now operated by U. S. Steel as Lorain Tubular Operations. U. S. Steel and EPA entered into a consent decree that resolved all issues related to U. S. Steels operations. The Consent Decree was filed with the U. S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio Eastern Division (United States of America and State of Ohio v. United States Steel Corporation), where it was entered November 29, 2005. In December 2005, U. S. Steel paid cash penalties totaling $100,025. Also in December 2005, U. S. Steel conducted a test of particulate emissions from its No. 3 Seamless Rotary Mill scrubber system to demonstrate compliance with its permit limitations. In addition, U. S. Steel has agreed to perform a SEP to do PCB transformer replacement for a combined amount of approximately $395,000. Issues related to the company that retained the steelmaking and bar producing facilities were resolved in its bankruptcy proceedings. Great Lakes Works Effective February 14, 2005, U. S. Steel entered into a consent order with Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) related to Great Lakes Works that included the installation of a new bag house for B2 Blast Furnace, which has been completed; the installation of baffles at the Quench Tower, which has been completed; projects to reduce emissions from the steel producing facilities; a civil penalty of $950,000, which has been paid; and a SEP at a cost of $200,000 for river bank improvements. Various construction projects are underway at the steel producing facilities to improve emission capture and control. These projects are proceeding in compliance with the consent order schedule. Construction for the riverbank restoration SEP was completed in September 2005. On January 6, 2006, Great Lakes Works received a proposed administrative consent order (Order) from the MDEQ that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the facility. The Order identifies certain corrective actions desired by MDEQ to address the alleged violations and anticipates an undisclosed penalty amount. Great Lakes Works had previously initiated work on some of these actions and completed others. Costs to complete the remaining corrective actions requested by MDEQ are presently not determinable. One of the corrective actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has undertaken a project to remove historic basin sediments from these areas. $800,000 has been spent on the project as of December 31, 2005. Costs to complete the river basin project are estimated to be $1.2 million. Great Lakes Works intends to negotiate a settlement of this matter with MDEQ in 2006. Duluth Works At the former Duluth Works in Minnesota, U. S. Steel spent a total of approximately $13.0 million for cleanup and agency oversight costs through June 30, 2005. The Duluth Works was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. EPA has consolidated and included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River and Interlake sites on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel is conducting an engineering study of the estuary sediments. Depending upon the method and extent of remediation at this site, future costs are presently unknown and indeterminable. Current study and oversight costs are estimated at $385,000. These costs include risk assessment, sampling, inspections and analytical work, and development of a work plan and cost estimate to implement EPA five year review recommendations. Granite City Granite City Works received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004 for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occur when coke is pushed out of the ovens for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). The IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. The case is anticipated to be resolved by entering into a Consent Order in early 2006, which will include a revised pushing compliance plan and a penalty. IEPA has proposed a civil penalty of $175,000. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. 34 Table of Contents Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and Geneva Steel Company pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by Utah Department of Environmental Quality. In December 2005, a third party purchased the Geneva site and assumed Geneva Steel Companys rights and obligations under the asset sales agreement and the permit pursuant to a bankruptcy court order. U. S. Steel has reviewed environmental data concerning the site gathered by itself and third parties, has commenced the development of work plans that are necessary to begin field investigations and has begun remediation on some areas of the site for which U. S. Steel has responsibility. U. S. Steel estimates its share of the remaining costs of remediation and post closure care of three hazardous waste impoundments to be $29.4 million. Other In February 2005, U. S. Steels lease for a third party to mine slag at the Gascola slag disposal site in Penn Hills, Pennsylvania was terminated. Current mining regulations require closure of the site. The cost to close the slag disposal site is estimated to be $2.8 million. This work will include contour of the highwalls and vegetative cover for the entire site. In September 2001, U. S. Steel agreed to an Administrative Order on Consent with the State of North Carolina for the assessment and cleanup of a Greensboro, North Carolina fertilizer manufacturing site. The Order allocated responsibility for remediation costs among U. S. Steel and two other parties. The estimated remediation costs are $3.1 million. U. S. Steels estimated share of these costs is $788,000, based on the agreed allocation factor of 26 percent. U. S. Steel is preparing a Remedial Action Plan (RAP) for the site for submittal to the North Carolina Department of Environmental and Natural Resources (NCDENR) that will propose limited soil removal and monitored natural attenuation for groundwater beneath the site. The RAP is due to the NCDENR in April 2006. On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB), entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. In 2004, a remedial action design report was submitted to and approved by KDHE. U. S. Steel anticipates that its 50 percent share of the costs necessary to complete the remedial design and implement the preferred remedy will be approximately $2.8 million. In 2005, KDHE and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service asserted a claim against U. S. Steel and SSB for natural resource damages at the site and nearby creek. The parties have agreed to settlement of this claim for a cash payment and U. S. Steels share is $247,875. Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2006, are as follows: John J. Connelly 59 Senior Vice PresidentStrategic Planning and Business Development John H. Goodish 57 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer Gretchen R. Haggerty 50 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer David H. Lohr 52 Senior Vice PresidentEuropean Operations & President U. S. Steel Kosice Dan D. Sandman 57 Vice Chairman and Chief Legal & Administrative Officer, General Counsel and Secretary Larry G. Schultz 56 Vice President & Controller Thomas W. Sterling 58 Senior Vice PresidentHuman Resources and Business Services John P. Surma, Jr. 51 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel, Marathon Oil Corporation or their subsidiaries for more than the past five years. 35 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 57. As of January 31, 2006, there were 27,427 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. After the separation from Marathon Oil Corporation, U. S. Steel established an initial quarterly dividend rate of $0.05 per share effective with the March 2002 payment. The quarterly dividend rate was increased to $.08 per share effective with the March 2005 payment, and increased to $.10 per share effective with the June 2005 payment. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average closing price for U. S. Steels common stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of common shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds and are subject to limitations under U. S. Steels debt obligations. For further information, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities In 2005, no unregistered shares were issued. 36 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table contains information about purchases by U. S. Steel of its equity securities during the period covered by this report. Period Total Numberof SharesPurchased Average Price Paid per Share Total NumberOf SharesPurchased asPart ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans orPrograms Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under thePlans or Programs January 1 31, 2005 February 1 28, 2005 March 1 31, 2005 Quarter ended March 31, 2005 April 1 30, 2005 May 1 31, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 June 1 30, 2005 Quarter ended June 30, 2005 111,685 $ 39.27 July 1 31, 2005 August 1 31, 2005 910,000 $ 42.04 910,000 7,090,000 September 1 30, 2005 300,000 $ 44.27 300,000 6,790,000 Quarter ended September 30, 2005 1,210,000 $ 42.59 1,210,000 6,790,000 October 1 31, 2005 200,000 $ 36.30 200,000 6,590,000 November 1 30, 2005 2,410,000 $ 40.15 2,410,000 4,180,000 December 1 31, 2005 2,000,000 $ 48.90 2,000,000 2,180,000 Quarter ended December 31, 2005 4,610,000 $ 43.78 4,610,000 2,180,000 With the exception of the shares repurchased in May 2005, the above shares were purchased pursuant to the U. S. Steel Common Stock Repurchase Program, which was announced on July 26, 2005 and allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. The above purchases were all made in the open market. On January 31, 2006, U. S. Steel announced the replacement of this repurchase program with a new program having the authority to purchase up to eight million shares of its common stock. It is expected that the purchases will be made from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions. The timing of such purchases will be determined by the company based upon a number of factors including the market price of United States Steel Corporation common stock; the availability and pursuit of strategic initiatives including investment and acquisition opportunities; operating cash flow and internal capital requirements; and general economic conditions in the United States and Europe. Of the shares repurchased in May 2005, 48,638 were purchased pursuant to the exercise by Non Officer Restricted Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan, and the remainder were purchased pursuant to the exercise by 2002 Stock Plan participants of their right to elect Stock for Tax Witholding in connection with the vesting of restricted shares under the plan. 37 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) Adjusted(a) 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001(b) Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(c) $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 $ 6,949 $ 6,286 Income (loss) from operations(d) 1,439 1,625 (719 ) 123 (404 ) Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(d) 910 1,121 (363 ) 81 (211 ) Net income (loss)(d) $ 910 $ 1,135 $ (420 ) $ 81 $ (211 ) Per Common Share Data: Income (loss) before extraordinary loss and cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles(e) basic $ 7.87 $ 9.87 $ (3.67 ) $ 0.83 $ (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.72 (3.67 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Net income (loss)(e) basic 7.87 10.00 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) diluted 7.00 8.83 (4.22 ) 0.83 (2.37 ) Dividends paid(f) 0.38 0.20 0.20 0.20 0.55 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 9,822 $ 11,064 $ 7,897 $ 7,991 $ 8,332 Capitalization: Debt(g) $ 1,612 $ 1,371 $ 1,933 $ 1,434 $ 1,466 Stockholders equity 3,324 4,074 1,151 2,042 2,501 Total capitalization $ 4,936 $ 5,445 $ 3,084 $ 3,476 $ 3,967 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements and the Five Year Financial Summary. (b) Prior to December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel comprised an operating unit of USX Corporation, now named Marathon Oil Corporation. On December 31, 2001, U. S. Steel was capitalized through the issuance of 89.2 million shares of common stock to holders of USX U. S. Steel Group common stock on a one for one basis. The balance sheet position as of December 31, 2001, reflects the financial position of U. S. Steel as a standalone entity. The income statement for the year ended December 31, 2001 represents a carve out presentation of the businesses of U. S. Steel. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products due to the National acquisition, increased prices and shipment volumes for USSE and increased prices for domestic sheet products. The improvement also reflected higher prices and volumes on commercial coke shipments, increased shipments of slabs and increased shipments for Straightline. These were partially offset by lower coal revenue due to the sale of the mining assets, lower plate revenue due in part to the disposition of the Gary plate mill, and lower commercial shipments of iron ore pellets. The increase in net sales from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to higher shipments and average realized prices for domestic sheet products; the absence of a $104 million impairment of receivables that was included in 2001; increased Straightline shipments as a result of a full year of operations; and higher average realized prices for USSK, which were partially due to foreign exchange effects. (d) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2002 to 2003 primarily reflected restructuring charges, higher pension and OPEB costs and increased compensation expense related to stock appreciation rights. The improvement from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to improved operating efficiencies; higher average realized prices and shipment volumes for sheet products; lower asset impairments; lower energy costs; cost savings initiatives; and higher income from iron ore pellet and coal operations. These were partially offset by higher pension settlement losses; lower shipment volumes and average realized prices for tubular products; the absence of the gain on the Transtar reorganization, which occurred in 2001; and lower income from coke operations. (e) See Note 12 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (f) For year 2001, represents dividends paid per share on USXU. S. Steel Group common stock. (g) For discussion of changes between the years 2005, 2004 and 2003, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2002 to 2003 was mainly due to the issuance of $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes in May 2003. 38 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the seventh largest steel producer in the world and the second largest integrated steel producer in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to implement our strategy to continue to increase our value added product mix; to expand our global business platform; to improve our capital structure and strengthen our balance sheet; to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets. In Europe, U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing European markets, and to invest in value added facilities, including an automotive hot dip galvanizing line that is currently under construction. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the sustainability of higher steel prices; the cost of purchased raw materials and energy; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has resulted in volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States in 2005 were lower than 2004 levels. Import levels may increase in 2006 depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, consumption in the United States versus other regions and foreign production levels. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on 39 Table of Contents historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2006. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting these rates, we utilize several Merrill Lynch Average AAA/AA Corporate Bond indexes and both the 30 year and the 10 year U. S. Treasury bond rates as a preliminary indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 5.75 percent to 5.50 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2006 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most non union benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2006. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $159 million in 2006. Total OPEB costs in 2006 are expected to be approximately $111 million. 40 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 1/2 percent change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and OPEB calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) (1/2%) 1/2% Expected return on plan assets Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension costs for 2006 $ 34 $ (34 ) Discount rate Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension & OPEB costs for 2006 $ 16 $ (17 ) Pension & OPEB liabilities at December 31, 2005 $ 430 $ (470 ) Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected OPEB costs for 2006 $ (8 ) $ 9 Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of its net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends, without regard to the one time repatriation in 2005, to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2005, net of the $300 million repatriation, amounted to approximately $1,276 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $400 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of 41 Table of Contents remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2005, total accruals for environmental remediation were $145 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. Change in Accounting Method During the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel changed its method of determining the cost of USSK inventories from the last in, first out (LIFO) method to the first in, first out (FIFO) method. Management considers the FIFO method to be preferable to the LIFO method for USSK because it creates consistency of the valuation method used for inventories within the USSE reportable segment and provides for comparability of the USSE segment with major international competitors. In accordance with FAS No. 154, prior period results have been adjusted to apply the new method retrospectively. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Segments During 2005, U. S. Steel had three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve domestic customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), container, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil Company LLC and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G Coatings Company L.P., which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with the former owner of USSB. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the USSB acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service center, appliance, container, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services and the management and development of real estate. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota and Delray Connecting Railroad Company, which were acquired from National. Prior to the sale on June 30, 2003 of U. S. Steels coal mines and related assets, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer values of steel rounds and bands supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs and may be adjusted quarterly if actual production costs warrant. For further information, see Note 6 to the Financial Statements. 42 Table of Contents Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales of U. S. Steel by segment for each of the last three years: (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2005 2004 2003(a) Flat rolled(b)(c) $ 8,813 $ 9,827 $ 6,401 USSE 3,336 2,839 1,817 Tubular 1,546 941 573 Straightline(c) 138 Total sales from reportable segments 13,695 13,607 8,929 Other Businesses(d) 344 368 399 Net sales $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Includes net sales from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. (d) Includes net sales from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business, and from the sale of coal prior to June 30, 2003, when U. S. Steel sold its coal mining business. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2005 versus Year Ended December 31, 2004 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 14 % 6 % 0 % 0 % 2 % 10 % USSE 2 % 14 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 6 % 52 % 5 % 0 % 1 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects 43 Table of Contents Total net sales in 2005 increased by $64 million compared to 2004. Sales for the Flat rolled segment were down 10 percent as the increases in Flat rolled average steel prices (up $43 per ton) were more than offset by lower sheet shipment volumes and lower trade shipments of coke. Sales for USSE increased by 18 percent mainly as a result of higher average steel prices (up $81 per ton). Tubular sales were up significantly due primarily to higher average prices (up $463 per ton), as well as increased shipment volumes and an improved product mix. Year Ended December 31, 2004 versus Year Ended December 31, 2003 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 12 % 34 % 4 % 0 % 4 % 54 % USSE 2 % 28 % 11 % 7 % 8 % 56 % Tubular 23 % 42 % 2 % 0 % 3 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects Total net sales in 2004 increased $4,647 million compared to 2003. Sales for the Flat rolled segment increased 54 percent mainly as a result of higher average realized prices (up $152 per ton), higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products; and higher sales on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill. Sales for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. USSE sales were up 56 percent mainly due to higher average realized prices (up $171 per ton), favorable changes in product mix and favorable foreign currency exchange rate effects. Sales for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. The 64 percent increase for Tubular was primarily due to higher average realized prices (up $233 per ton) and shipment volumes. Operating expenses Profit based union payments Results for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 included costs related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. All of these costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 % Change Allocated to segment results $ 115 $ 131 12 % Retiree benefit expenses 100 110 9 % Total $ 215 $ 241 11 % Payment amounts per the agreement with the USWA are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) to be contributed to the National Benefit Trust, the purpose of which (when established) is to assist National retirees with healthcare costs, based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item were calculated and recorded through the income statement in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. 44 Table of Contents Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $280 million in 2005, compared to $254 million in 2004 and $556 million in 2003. The costs in 2005, 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $23 million, $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The increase from 2004 to 2005 mainly reflected a lower asset base, which resulted in a higher amortization of net actuarial losses and a lower return on plan assets. Excluding the settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $109 million in 2005, $106 million in 2004 and $241 million in 2003. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $19 million in 2005, $18 million in 2004 and $15 million in 2003. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $698 million in 2005, compared to $739 million in 2004. The decline primarly reflected lower expenses for stock based and executive compensation, partially offset by higher pension costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower stock based compensation and lower OPEB costs. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for further details. 45 Table of Contents Income (loss) from operations:(a) Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(b) (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 Flat rolled(c) $ 602 $ 1,185 $ (54 ) USSE 502 439 214 Tubular 528 197 (25 ) Straightline(c) (70 ) Total income from reportable segments 1,632 1,821 65 Other Businesses 43 58 15 Segment income from operations $ 1,675 $ 1,879 $ 80 Retiree benefit expenses (267 ) (257 ) (107 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain 70 Stock appreciation rights 1 (23 ) (75 ) Workforce reduction charges (20 ) (17 ) (621 ) Environmental remediation at previously sold facility (20 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Asset impairments (57 ) Litigation items (25 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,439 $ 1,625 $ (719 ) (a) See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. (b) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. 46 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled segment income in 2005 declined by $583 million compared to 2004. The decrease primarily resulted from lower steel and commercial coke shipment volumes and higher costs for raw materials, outages, energy and labor. These were partially offset by increased prices for flat rolled products and higher transfer values for steel rounds supplied to Tubular. During 2005, the cost to produce tube rounds has increased dramatically and the transfer price for tube rounds supplied to Tubular, which had been established at the beginning of 2005 based on projected costs, was increased by $53 per ton effective April 1, 2005, by an additional $20 per ton effective July 1, 2005, and by an additional $46 per ton effective October 1, 2005. Capability utilization in 2005 was adversely affected by the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace as well as lower demand levels early in the year as a result of high service center and end customer inventory levels. Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. 47 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income of $502 million for 2005 increased by $63 million from 2004 due mainly to higher prices, partially offset by increased raw material and outage costs. USSE segment income for 2004 was $439 million, compared to income of $214 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. Capability utilization declined in 2003 and 2004 primarily due to the inclusion of USSB as one of its two blast furnaces was not operational until the third quarter of 2005. Capability utilization was also adversely affected in 2005 by the rebuild of our largest European blast furnace in Slovakia and in 2004 by operational difficulties with a blast furnace early in the year. 48 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular Tubular segment income of $528 million in 2005 reflected an improvement of $331 million compared to 2004. The increase resulted mainly from higher prices, partially offset by higher costs for steel rounds as discussed in Segment results for Flat rolled. Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of steel rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which were transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. Results for Other Businesses The decline in income from Other Businesses from $58 million in 2004 to $43 million in 2005 was mainly due to lower results at iron ore pellet operations due to lower trade sales and increased costs for natural gas, partially offset by higher intersegment sales and by improved results for real estate activities and transportation services. Other Businesses recorded income of $58 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services, partially offset by lower results for real estate activities. Items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain of $70 million in 2005 resulted from a personal property tax settlement with the city of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana (Gary property tax settlement) and reflected the reversal of accruals in excess of the settlement amount of $44 million. 49 Table of Contents Stock appreciation rights resulted in a credit to compensation expense of $1 million in 2005 and charges of $23 million and $75 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued from 1995 through 2003 and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. Workforce reduction charges of $20 million in 2005 reflected special termination benefits for a voluntary early retirement program offered to certain employees at USSK. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain coal seam gas interests and from the sale in June 2003 of our coal mines and related assets. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and recognition of certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Net interest and other financial costs Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(a) (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Net interest and other financial costs $ 72 $ 156 $ 167 Foreign currency losses (gains) 80 (36 ) (54 ) Adjustment from Gary property tax settlement (25 ) Adjustment related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes (38 ) (17 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 33 Total net interest and other financial costs $ 127 $ 115 $ 96 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Net interest and other financial costs in 2005 included a favorable adjustment of $25 million related to the Gary property tax settlement. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 also included a $33 million charge resulting from the early extinguishment of certain senior debt. Excluding these items, the $32 million increase in 2005 primarily reflected an unfavorable change in foreign currency effects. This was partially offset by lower debt levels resulting from the retirement of USSK long term debt in November 2004 and the redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004, higher interest income and lower interest on tax related liabilities. Excluding the previously identified items, the small increase in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected a smaller foreign currency gain, partially offset by higher interest income and 50 Table of Contents lower interest on tax related liabilities. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which was the functional currency of both prior to January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of our operations outside the United States was the U.S. dollar through December 31, 2005. As of January 1, 2006, the functional currency for USSK and USSB was changed from the U.S. dollar to the euro primarily because of significant changes in economic facts and circumstances as a result of Slovakias entry into the European Union and the subsequent entry of the Slovak koruna into the Exchange Rate Mechanizm II in preparation for Slovakias adoption of the euro. Other factors that contributed to this change are the evolution of USSE into an autonomous business segment, the settlement of its U.S. dollar denominated debt and the establishment of euro based debt facilities. This change in functional currency will be applied on a prospective basis. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2005 was $365 million, compared to $356 million in 2004 and a benefit of $452 million in 2003. The provision in 2005 included a charge of $37 million resulting from the $95 million pre tax gain from the Gary property tax settlement and a $16 million charge resulting from the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. During 2005, a current tax provision was booked for USSK because the provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 50 percent of its tax liability for years 2005 through 2009, compared to a 100 percent credit in previous years. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefit in 2003 included a favorable effect relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million. The tax provisions in all three years were primarily the result of pre tax results from domestic operations. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets of $472 million. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2005, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $14 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $81 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the cumulative losses experienced since the acquisition of USSB. If USSB generates sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $58 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2005 was $910 million, compared with $1,135 million in 2004 and with a net loss of $420 million in 2003. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2005 increased $480 million from year end 2004 primarily due to increased cash balances (see Cash Flows) and higher inventories, partially offset by a reduction in outstanding accounts receivable. The increase in inventories was mainly due to higher quantities of raw materials. The decrease in accounts receivables primarily resulted from lower sales in the fourth quarter of 2005, compared to the fourth quarter of 2004, due mainly to lower prices and shipment volumes for flat rolled products. 51 Table of Contents FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability was required for this plan. Consequently, entries were recorded that eliminated prepaid pensions, increased the intangible pension asset by $250 million and resulted in a net charge to equity of $1.37 billion, which increased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2005 increased $171 million from year end 2004 and long term deferred income tax liabilities were eliminated, primarily due to the establishment of federal and state deferred tax assets in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2005 increased $214 million from year end 2004 mainly due to the increase in short term debt and current maturities of long term debt, which primarily reflects amounts drawn against a one year revolving credit facility at USSK. The facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation of $300 million in foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities of $1,218 million in 2005 and $1,400 million in 2004 was more than adequate to cover investing and financing activities. In 2003, net cash provided from operating activities was $577 million, which was insufficient to cover the acquisitions of National and USSB. The shortfall was covered by the issuance of long term debt and preferred stock. Cash from operating activities was reduced by payments related to employee benefits as shown in the table below. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Employee Benefit Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ (130 ) $ (295 ) $ (16 ) OPEB payments not funded by trusts (213 ) (186 ) (60 ) Contributions to VEBA(a) (60 ) (30 ) Contributions to other OPEB trusts (22 ) (4 ) (19 ) Payments to multiemployer pension plans(b) (28 ) (50 )(c) Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts (24 ) (44 ) (15 ) Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ (477 ) $ (609 ) $ (110 ) (a) All were voluntary except for $10 million in 2005. (b) Primarily the Steelworkers Pension Trust. (c) Includes $11 million related to 2003 hours worked. 52 Table of Contents Capital expenditures were $741 million in 2005, $579 million in 2004 and $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $492 million in 2005 included spending for the major rebuild of the largest U. S. Steel blast furnace at Gary Works, for environmental projects at our iron ore operations and for coke oven thru wall repairs. European expenditures of $249 million included spending at USSK for air emission reduction projects for cokemaking and steelmaking facilities, for a new automotive galvanizing line, for construction of an air separation plant and for blast furnace upgrades; and spending at USSB for the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Domestic expenditures in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Tubular Operations and other smaller projects, the most significant of which were at Gary Works, Mon Valley Works and Minntac. European expenditures in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. 53 Table of Contents U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2005, totaled $82 million. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2005, was $53 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $156 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2005, leaving a balance of $1 million under this commitment. Capital expenditures for 2006 are expected to be approximately $700 million, reflecting approximately $440 million for domestic operations and $260 million for European operations. Domestic projects include the completion of the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace at Gary Works, acquisition of mobile, mining and other production equipment, and coke oven thru wall replacements at Clairton Works. We are also evaluating alternatives to add cokemaking capacity and to enhance energy recovery efficiency. Projects in Slovakia include continued spending for a new automotive galvanizing line, and continuing work on air emission reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include preparatory work for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace in 2007. The preceding statement concerning expected 2006 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2005 reflected amounts drawn against a USSK credit agreement that was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Common stock repurchased reflected cash utilized to repurchase 5.8 million shares of U. S. Steel common stock during 2005 in the open market. A U. S. Steel common stock repurchase program, which was announced during the third quarter of 2005, allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. On January 31, 2006, the Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004, which were used for the early redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004. This redemption is included in repayment of long term debt, which also reflects the retirement of long term USSK debt in November 2004. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock Series B Preferred Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2005 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.08 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2004 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2003 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 1.206 $ Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average market price for U. S. Steels common 54 Table of Contents stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Liquidity U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement to sell a revolving interest in eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries through a commercial paper conduit program with funding under the facility up to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. The Receivables Purchase Agreement expires on November 28, 2006. Qualifying accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. While the Receivables Purchase Agreement expires in November 2006, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed in the following paragraph and other debt obligations, any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 22, 2006. As of December 31, 2005, $500 million was available to be sold under this facility. U. S. Steel has a revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by a lien on our domestic inventory and receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement (Inventory Facility). The Inventory Facility contains restrictive covenants, many of which apply only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million, including a fixed charge coverage ratio test. In addition, a $100 million availability block may apply beginning May 1, 2008 until the 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes) are repaid, refinanced or defeased. Interest on borrowings is calculated based on either LIBOR or the agents prime rate using spreads based on facility availability as defined in the agreement. Although there were no amounts drawn against this facility at December 31, 2005, availability was $594 million due to $6 million of letters of credit issued against the facility. This facility expires in October 2009. At December 31, 2005, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. USSB was the sole obligor on a EUR 9.3 million committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility expired on September 27, 2005. On September 28, 2005, USSB entered into a new EUR 25 million facility (which approximated $30 million at December 31, 2005), which is secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods and expires September 28, 2008. At December 31, 2005, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. USSK is the sole obligor on a EUR 195 million revolving credit facility (which approximated $231 million at December 31, 2005) that expires in December 2006. The facility bears interest at EURIBOR plus 20 basis points. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on undrawn amounts. At December 31, 2005, this facility was fully drawn. This facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes, and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). 55 Table of Contents On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.5 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $114 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4 million during 2005, and does not expect any material changes in 2006. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2005, in the amount of $2 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as $556 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases and $41 million relating to certain operating leases, may be declared immediately due and payable. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2005: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents(a) $ 1,452 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 56 Amounts available under USSB credit facility 30 Total estimated liquidity(b) $ 2,632 (a) Excludes $27 million of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. (b) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U.S.Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (a) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U. S. Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (b) Excludes $27 million and $16 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity has increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. 57 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2005, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2006 2007through2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,613 $ 249 $ 394 $ 413 $ 557 Operating leases(b) 376 106 121 52 97 Capital commitments(c) 135 49 33 53 Environmental commitments(c) 145 26 119 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e) 29 51 (e) Other postretirement benefits (f) 225 530 500 (f) Total contractual obligations $ 2,269 (g) $ 684 $ 1,129 $ 965 $ 826 (g) (a) See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2006 through 2010 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2005, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $130 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $24 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in 2006. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $13 million to pension plans not funded by trusts in 2006. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension 58 Table of Contents plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust to be established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2005, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2006 2007through 2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 83 $ 75 $ $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 16 4 12 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 34 34 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 10 8 1 1 Contingent liabilities: Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 3,886 2,507 1,078 195 106 Total commercial commitments $ 4,179 $ 2,594 $ 1,079 $ 195 $ 311 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 19 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works co generation facility in the second quarter of 2006; therefore, the agreement for the supply of electric power (previously expiring in 2011) will be terminated. U. S. Steel has an off balance sheet arrangement for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. This operating lease arrangement is with a special purpose trust (Trust). The Trust financed the construction of the facility and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficiaries of the Trust. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of this entity and there is no assurance that U. S. Steel will purchase the facility at lease expiration. U. S. Steels transactions with the Trust are limited to the operating lease agreement, and the associated lease expense is included in cost of sales on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate this Trust because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. 59 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement resulted in an increase of approximately $45 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance in order to meet environmental standards as established from time to time by Slovak law. One current compliance project is a dedusting system 60 Table of Contents for Steel Shop No. 2 to meet air emission standards for particulates. These standards are applicable January 1, 2007 and USSK is attempting to complete the project by this deadline; however, project completion is currently anticipated for the first quarter 2007. Failure to meet the applicable deadline could result in the imposition of corrective measures by the Slovak Ministry of Environment (Ministry). While the United States has not ratified the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC), in order to provide EU member states a mechanism for fulfilling their Kyoto commitments, has established its own CO2 limits for every EU member state. In 2004, the EC approved a national allocation plan for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias originally proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent, and following that decision the Ministry imposed an 8 percent reduction to the amount of CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. Subsequently, USSK filed legal actions agains the EC and the Ministry challenging these reductions. In addition, USSK is evaluating a number of alternatives ranging from purchasing CO2 allowances to reducing steel production, and it is not currently possible to predict the impact of these decisions on USSK. However, the actual shortfall of allowances for the initial allocation period (2005 through 2007) will depend upon a number of internal and external variables and the effect of that shortfall on USSK cannot be predicted at this time. Based on the fair value of the anticipated shortfall of allowances related to production in 2005, a long term other liability of $4 million has been charged to income and recorded on the balance sheet. Domestically, while ratification of the Kyoto Protocol does not seem likely in the near term, there remains the possibility that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may impose limitations on greenhouse gases. The impact on U. S. Steels domestic operations cannot be estimated. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Domestic: Capital $ 66 $ 24 $ 8 Compliance Operating & maintenance 305 241 206 Remediation(b) 23 18 38 Total Domestic $ 394 $ 283 $ 252 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 97 $ 22 Compliance Operating & maintenance 12 8 10 Remediation(b) 3 3 3 Total USSE $ 82 $ 108 $ 35 Total U. S. Steel $ 476 $ 391 $ 287 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 18 percent of total capital expenditures in 2005, 21 percent in 2004 and 10 percent in 2003. Compliance expenditures represented 3 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2005, 2 percent in 2004 and 3 percent in 2003. Remediation spending during 2003 to 2005 was mainly related to remediation 61 Table of Contents activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2005, U. S. Steel accrued $49 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2005, was $145 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2006. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $113 million in 2006, $61 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2006 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $76 million in 2007, including $60 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. The Senate Judiciary Committee has recommended to the Senate legislation that, if enacted, would create an asbestos trust fund that would provide benefits to asbestos claimants funded by payments over 30 years of 62 Table of Contents $136 billion from companies and their insurers that have been involved in asbestos litigation, including U. S. Steel along with thousands of others. The legislation would provide an administrative system to process asbestos claims instead of resolution through judicial proceedings. The amount that a company would be required to pay under the current version of the legislation would depend upon its placement among several tiers and sub tiers, based upon corporate revenue and prior expenditures related to asbestos defense costs, settlements and judgments. Management estimates that if the legislation were adopted in the form proposed by the Judiciary Committee, the annual cost to U. S. Steel would be somewhat greater than the historical cost of asbestos defense and settlement. It is unclear whether any legislation will be adopted and any final legislation may be substantially different than the version recommended by the Judiciary Committee. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional detail concerning asbestos litigation, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. Outlook for 2006 The first quarter of 2006 looks positive for our domestic and European markets. Service center and end customer inventories are balanced and we expect continued strength in the energy markets served by our Tubular segment. For Flat rolled, first quarter 2006 shipments are expected to improve compared to the fourth quarter of 2005 due to the restart of the Gary No. 14 blast furnace, with prices at or above the fourth quarter level. We expect higher raw material costs to be largely offset by reduced energy and outage costs. For U. S. Steel Europe, first quarter shipments are expected to increase and average realized prices and costs should be consistent with fourth quarter levels. However, first quarter results will be negatively affected by production curtailments at Serbian operations as a result of natural gas supply disruptions and could also be negatively affected by potential job related actions by a labor union at USSB that is dissatisfied with the 2006 wage agreement, which became effective upon approval of the other unions. Shipments and average realized prices for the Tubular segment in the first quarter of 2006 are expected to be in line with the fourth quarter. First quarter 2006 results for Other Businesses should decline from the fourth quarter due primarily to normal seasonal variations at our iron ore operations in Minnesota. Total costs for pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately $300 million in 2006, compared to $390 million in 2005. Accounting Standards In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123R. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value 63 Table of Contents of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved a new rule that delayed the effective date of FAS 123R. Except for this deferral of the effective date, the guidance in FAS 123R is unchanged. Under the SECs rule, FAS 123R is now effective for U. S. Steel for annual rather than interim periods that begin after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply this Statement to all awards granted on or after January 1, 2006 and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after January 1, 2006 for the portion of outstanding awards for which requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for proforma disclosures. Currently, U. S. Steel expects that the effect of adopting this Statement on 2006 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $10 million. In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. This Interpretation clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists. U. S. Steel adopted the provisions of this Interpretation in the second quarter of 2005. There were no financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Interpretation. In May 2005, the FASB issued FAS 154, which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. FAS 154 eliminates the requirement to include the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle in the income statement and instead requires that changes in accounting principle be retroactively applied. FAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and correction of errors made on or after January 1, 2006, with early adoption permitted. U. S. Steel began applying the provisions of this statement in the fourth quarter of 2005. In February 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. This Statement resolves issues addressed in Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. D1, Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets, and is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect any financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Statement. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its market risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in income from operations. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain transactions, primarily related to forecasted natural gas purchases. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the natural gas purchase is settled. Once the purchase is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. 64 Table of Contents Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. U. S. Steel had no open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2005. Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in closing commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004 are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Assuming a Hypothetical PriceDecrease of: 2005 2004 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Incremental Decrease in Income Before Taxes: Zinc $ 2.9 $ 7.2 Natural Gas $ 1.8 $ 4.4 Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2005, may cause future pretax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $7 million in 2005, compared to gains of $4 million in 2004 and $1 million in 2003. These gains were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For carrying amount and fair value of derivative commodity instruments, see Note 26 to the Financial Statements. 65 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2005 and 2004 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 18 $ $ 7 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 1,568 $ 36 $ 1,419 $ 50 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2005, and 2004, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. (d) For additional information, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $36 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $23.1 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $61.6 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2005 euro forward rates would result in a $8.5 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 66 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the seventh largest steel producer in the world and the second largest integrated steel producer in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, and steel scrap to produce a wide range of steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil and gas industries. In addition to its domestic facilities, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Central Europe through U. S. Steel Kosice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Balkan (USSB), located in Serbia. U. S. Steel s financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. The primary drivers for U. S. Steel are economic conditions in the United States, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc and tin) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to implement our strategy to continue to increase our value added product mix; to expand our global business platform; to improve our capital structure and strengthen our balance sheet; to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to become a world leader in safety performance. In North America, U. S. Steel is focused on providing value added steel products to its target markets. In Europe, U. S. Steels strategy is to be a leading producer and the prime supplier of steel to growing European markets, and to invest in value added facilities, including an automotive hot dip galvanizing line that is currently under construction. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which will impact the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the sustainability of higher steel prices; the cost of purchased raw materials and energy; the level of unfunded pension and OPEB liabilities; the magnitude and durability of the world economic recovery; and the impact of production and consumption of steel in China, which has resulted in volatility in steel raw material supplies and global steel pricing. Steel imports to the United States in 2005 were lower than 2004 levels. Import levels may increase in 2006 depending on the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, market pricing, consumption in the United States versus other regions and foreign production levels. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations, potential litigation claims and settlements; and assets and obligations related to employee benefits. Management estimates are based on 39 Table of Contents historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Pensions and OPEB The recording of net periodic benefit costs (credits) for defined benefit pensions and OPEB are based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steel bases its estimate of the annual expected return on plan assets on the historical long term rate of return experienced by U. S. Steels plan assets, the investment mix of plan assets between debt, equities and other investments, and its view of market returns expected in the future. Based on a review of these factors, U. S. Steel has kept the expected annual return on pension plan assets for its main pension plan at 8.0 percent for 2006. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which the pension liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting these rates, we utilize several Merrill Lynch Average AAA/AA Corporate Bond indexes and both the 30 year and the 10 year U. S. Treasury bond rates as a preliminary indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. Based on this evaluation at December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel lowered the discount rate used to measure both pension and OPEB obligations from 5.75 percent to 5.50 percent. Lower discount rates increase the actuarial losses of the plans and will unfavorably impact net periodic benefit costs by approximately $6 million for pensions in 2006 principally due to the impact of required amortization amounts. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Assumed health care cost trend rates no longer have a significant effect on the amounts reported for U. S. Steels health care plans, other than the benefit plan offered to retired mineworkers, since a cost cap was negotiated in 2003 with the USWA, which freezes Steelworker retiree medical costs after the 2006 base year. Most non union benefits are limited to flat dollar payments that are not affected by escalation. For measurement purposes, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 9 percent for 2006. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 4.75 percent in 2013 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, excluding multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $159 million in 2006. Total OPEB costs in 2006 are expected to be approximately $111 million. 40 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 1/2 percent change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and OPEB calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) (1/2%) 1/2% Expected return on plan assets Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension costs for 2006 $ 34 $ (34 ) Discount rate Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected pension & OPEB costs for 2006 $ 16 $ (17 ) Pension & OPEB liabilities at December 31, 2005 $ 430 $ (470 ) Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental Increase (Decrease) in: Expected OPEB costs for 2006 $ (8 ) $ 9 Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Asset Impairments Asset impairments are recognized when the carrying value of those productive assets exceeds their aggregate projected undiscounted cash flows. These undiscounted cash flows are based on managements long range estimates of market conditions and the overall performance associated with the individual asset or asset grouping. If future demand and market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, or if the probability of disposition of the assets differs from that previously estimated by management, additional asset write downs may be required. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of its net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. and certain foreign income taxes on the undistributed earnings of USSK and other consolidated foreign subsidiaries because management intends, without regard to the one time repatriation in 2005, to permanently reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2005, net of the $300 million repatriation, amounted to approximately $1,276 million. If such earnings were not permanently reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $400 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss should those items be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, tax ruling or other positions or authority), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of 41 Table of Contents remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2005, total accruals for environmental remediation were $145 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 143. Change in Accounting Method During the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel changed its method of determining the cost of USSK inventories from the last in, first out (LIFO) method to the first in, first out (FIFO) method. Management considers the FIFO method to be preferable to the LIFO method for USSK because it creates consistency of the valuation method used for inventories within the USSE reportable segment and provides for comparability of the USSE segment with major international competitors. In accordance with FAS No. 154, prior period results have been adjusted to apply the new method retrospectively. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Segments During 2005, U. S. Steel had three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of sheet, tin mill products and strip mill plate, as well as all domestic coke production facilities. These operations are principally located in the United States and primarily serve domestic customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), container, construction and appliance markets. Effective May 20, 2003, the Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of Granite City Works, Great Lakes Works, the Midwest Plant, ProCoil Company LLC and U. S. Steels equity interest in Double G Coatings Company L.P., which were acquired from National. In November 2003, U. S. Steel disposed of the Gary Works plate mill. The USSE segment includes the operating results of USSK, U. S. Steels integrated steel mill in Slovakia; and, effective September 12, 2003, USSB, U. S. Steels integrated steel facilities in Serbia. Prior to September 12, 2003, this segment included the operating results of activities under certain agreements with the former owner of USSB. These agreements were terminated in conjunction with the USSB acquisition. USSE produces and sells sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill, tubular, precision tube and specialty steel products. USSE primarily serves customers in the central and western European construction, conversion, service center, appliance, container, transportation, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels domestic tubular production facilities. These operations produce and sell both seamless and electric resistance weld tubular products and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses are involved in the production and sale of iron ore pellets, transportation services and the management and development of real estate. Effective May 20, 2003, Other Businesses include the operating results of iron ore pellet operations in Keewatin, Minnesota and Delray Connecting Railroad Company, which were acquired from National. Prior to the sale on June 30, 2003 of U. S. Steels coal mines and related assets, Other Businesses were involved in the mining, processing and sale of coal. The transfer values of steel rounds and bands supplied to Tubular from Flat rolled and of iron ore pellets supplied to Flat rolled from Other Businesses are set at the beginning of each year based on expected total production costs and may be adjusted quarterly if actual production costs warrant. For further information, see Note 6 to the Financial Statements. 42 Table of Contents Net Sales The following table sets forth the net sales of U. S. Steel by segment for each of the last three years: (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2005 2004 2003(a) Flat rolled(b)(c) $ 8,813 $ 9,827 $ 6,401 USSE 3,336 2,839 1,817 Tubular 1,546 941 573 Straightline(c) 138 Total sales from reportable segments 13,695 13,607 8,929 Other Businesses(d) 344 368 399 Net sales $ 14,039 $ 13,975 $ 9,328 (a) Includes National from the date of acquisition on May 20, 2003, and USSB from the date of acquisition on September 12, 2003. (b) Includes net sales from the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. (d) Includes net sales from the management of mineral resources prior to February 2004, when U. S. Steel sold substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business, and from the sale of coal prior to June 30, 2003, when U. S. Steel sold its coal mining business. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2005 versus Year Ended December 31, 2004 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 14 % 6 % 0 % 0 % 2 % 10 % USSE 2 % 14 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 6 % 52 % 5 % 0 % 1 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects 43 Table of Contents Total net sales in 2005 increased by $64 million compared to 2004. Sales for the Flat rolled segment were down 10 percent as the increases in Flat rolled average steel prices (up $43 per ton) were more than offset by lower sheet shipment volumes and lower trade shipments of coke. Sales for USSE increased by 18 percent mainly as a result of higher average steel prices (up $81 per ton). Tubular sales were up significantly due primarily to higher average prices (up $463 per ton), as well as increased shipment volumes and an improved product mix. Year Ended December 31, 2004 versus Year Ended December 31, 2003 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 12 % 34 % 4 % 0 % 4 % 54 % USSE 2 % 28 % 11 % 7 % 8 % 56 % Tubular 23 % 42 % 2 % 0 % 3 % 64 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency exchange effects Total net sales in 2004 increased $4,647 million compared to 2003. Sales for the Flat rolled segment increased 54 percent mainly as a result of higher average realized prices (up $152 per ton), higher shipment volumes for domestic sheet and tin products; and higher sales on commercial coke shipments due primarily to the consolidation of the 1314B Partnership effective January 1, 2004. These were partially offset by lower 2004 shipment volumes for plate products resulting from the disposal in November 2003 of U. S. Steels only plate mill. Sales for domestic sheet and tin products benefited from the inclusion of shipments from the acquired National Steel Corporation (National) facilities for the entire 2004 period. USSE sales were up 56 percent mainly due to higher average realized prices (up $171 per ton), favorable changes in product mix and favorable foreign currency exchange rate effects. Sales for USSE included shipments from the acquired Serbian facilities for the entire 2004 period. The 64 percent increase for Tubular was primarily due to higher average realized prices (up $233 per ton) and shipment volumes. Operating expenses Profit based union payments Results for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 included costs related to three profit based payments pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 labor agreement negotiated with the USWA. All of these costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 % Change Allocated to segment results $ 115 $ 131 12 % Retiree benefit expenses 100 110 9 % Total $ 215 $ 241 11 % Payment amounts per the agreement with the USWA are calculated as percentages of consolidated income from operations after special items (as defined in the agreement) and are: (1) to be contributed to the National Benefit Trust, the purpose of which (when established) is to assist National retirees with healthcare costs, based on between 6 percent and 7.5 percent of profit; (2) to be used to offset a portion of future medical insurance premiums to be paid by U. S. Steel retirees based on 5 percent of profit above $15 per ton; and (3) paid as profit sharing to active union employees based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. At the end of 2003 and 2004, assumptions for the second calculation above were included in the calculation of retiree medical liabilities, and costs for this item were calculated and recorded through the income statement in the same manner as other retiree medical expenses. 44 Table of Contents Pension and OPEB costs Defined benefit pension and multiemployer pension plan benefit costs, which are included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $280 million in 2005, compared to $254 million in 2004 and $556 million in 2003. The costs in 2005, 2004 and 2003 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $23 million, $22 million and $447 million, respectively. The increase from 2004 to 2005 mainly reflected a lower asset base, which resulted in a higher amortization of net actuarial losses and a lower return on plan assets. Excluding the settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the increase in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly reflected a lower return on assets and higher amortization of net actuarial losses due to recognition of prior years net asset losses, revised retirement rate assumptions, curtailment liabilities from the prior years Transition Assistance Program (TAP) and a lower discount rate. OPEB costs, which are also included in income (loss) from operations, totaled $109 million in 2005, $106 million in 2004 and $241 million in 2003. Costs in 2003 included $58 million of curtailment charges. The reduction in OPEB expense in 2004 compared to 2003, excluding the curtailment charges, primarily reflected cost sharing mechanisms negotiated with the USWA in 2003 in conjunction with assumed changes to retiree participation in company sponsored prescription drug programs based on future benefits under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. This decrease was partially offset by higher costs in 2004 related to the early retirements under the TAP recorded at the end of the third quarter of 2003 and additional costs in 2004 due to the full period inclusion of costs related to employees added with the National acquisition and to changes in assumed retirement ages. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $19 million in 2005, $18 million in 2004 and $15 million in 2003. For additional information on pensions and other postretirement benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $698 million in 2005, compared to $739 million in 2004. The decline primarly reflected lower expenses for stock based and executive compensation, partially offset by higher pension costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $66 million in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase was primarily due to higher pension costs and increased costs following the acquisition of the Serbian facilities, partially offset by lower stock based compensation and lower OPEB costs. Restructuring charges Restructuring charges of $683 million in 2003 consisted of the workforce reduction charge of $621 million, costs related to the Straightline shutdown totaling $16 million and $46 million of asset impairments, all of which are reflected in the following table under Other items not allocated to segments. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements for further details. 45 Table of Contents Income (loss) from operations:(a) Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(b) (Dollars in Millions) 2005 2004 2003 Flat rolled(c) $ 602 $ 1,185 $ (54 ) USSE 502 439 214 Tubular 528 197 (25 ) Straightline(c) (70 ) Total income from reportable segments 1,632 1,821 65 Other Businesses 43 58 15 Segment income from operations $ 1,675 $ 1,879 $ 80 Retiree benefit expenses (267 ) (257 ) (107 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain 70 Stock appreciation rights 1 (23 ) (75 ) Workforce reduction charges (20 ) (17 ) (621 ) Environmental remediation at previously sold facility (20 ) Income from sale of certain assets 43 47 Gain on timber contribution to pension plan 55 Asset impairments (57 ) Litigation items (25 ) Costs related to Straightline shutdown (16 ) Total income (loss) from operations $ 1,439 $ 1,625 $ (719 ) (a) See Note 6 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by FAS No. 131. (b) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. (c) As of January 1, 2004, residual results of Straightline are included in the Flat rolled segment. Prior year results have not been restated as, prior to December 31, 2003, Straightline had a separate management structure and was a different entity than residual Straightline. 46 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled Flat rolled segment income in 2005 declined by $583 million compared to 2004. The decrease primarily resulted from lower steel and commercial coke shipment volumes and higher costs for raw materials, outages, energy and labor. These were partially offset by increased prices for flat rolled products and higher transfer values for steel rounds supplied to Tubular. During 2005, the cost to produce tube rounds has increased dramatically and the transfer price for tube rounds supplied to Tubular, which had been established at the beginning of 2005 based on projected costs, was increased by $53 per ton effective April 1, 2005, by an additional $20 per ton effective July 1, 2005, and by an additional $46 per ton effective October 1, 2005. Capability utilization in 2005 was adversely affected by the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace as well as lower demand levels early in the year as a result of high service center and end customer inventory levels. Flat rolled recorded segment income of $1,185 million in 2004, compared to a loss of $54 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher average realized prices; cost savings due to workforce reductions and ongoing cost reduction efforts; and the full period realization of favorable effects resulting from the National acquisition. These improvements were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials, benefits and energy; and accruals for profit based payments for union and non union employees. 47 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE USSE segment income of $502 million for 2005 increased by $63 million from 2004 due mainly to higher prices, partially offset by increased raw material and outage costs. USSE segment income for 2004 was $439 million, compared to income of $214 million in 2003. The increase primarily resulted from higher average realized prices, partially offset by increased costs for raw materials. Capability utilization declined in 2003 and 2004 primarily due to the inclusion of USSB as one of its two blast furnaces was not operational until the third quarter of 2005. Capability utilization was also adversely affected in 2005 by the rebuild of our largest European blast furnace in Slovakia and in 2004 by operational difficulties with a blast furnace early in the year. 48 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular Tubular segment income of $528 million in 2005 reflected an improvement of $331 million compared to 2004. The increase resulted mainly from higher prices, partially offset by higher costs for steel rounds as discussed in Segment results for Flat rolled. Tubular recorded segment income of $197 million in 2004, compared to a segment loss of $25 million in 2003. The improvement resulted primarily from higher average realized prices. Margins in 2004 also benefited from stable costs for the significant portion of steel rounds supplied by Flat rolled, which were transferred at a cost based annual value established at the beginning of the year. Results for Other Businesses The decline in income from Other Businesses from $58 million in 2004 to $43 million in 2005 was mainly due to lower results at iron ore pellet operations due to lower trade sales and increased costs for natural gas, partially offset by higher intersegment sales and by improved results for real estate activities and transportation services. Other Businesses recorded income of $58 million in 2004, compared to $15 million in 2003. The improvement was mainly due to higher results for iron ore pellet operations and transportation services, partially offset by lower results for real estate activities. Items not allocated to segments: Property tax settlement gain of $70 million in 2005 resulted from a personal property tax settlement with the city of Gary, Lake County and the state of Indiana (Gary property tax settlement) and reflected the reversal of accruals in excess of the settlement amount of $44 million. 49 Table of Contents Stock appreciation rights resulted in a credit to compensation expense of $1 million in 2005 and charges of $23 million and $75 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock appreciation rights were issued from 1995 through 2003 and allow the holders to receive cash and or common stock equal to the excess of the fair market value of the common stock over the exercise price. Workforce reduction charges of $20 million in 2005 reflected special termination benefits for a voluntary early retirement program offered to certain employees at USSK. Workforce reduction charges of $17 million in 2004 reflected a pension settlement loss in the non qualified defined benefit pension plan related to the retirement of several executive management employees. Workforce reduction charges totaling $621 million in 2003 related to U. S. Steels operating and administrative cost reduction programs and consisted of curtailment expenses of $310 million for pensions and $64 million for other postretirement benefits related to employee reductions under the TAP for union employees (excluding former National employees retiring under the TAP), other retirements, layoffs and asset dispositions; $103 million for early retirement cash incentives related to the TAP; pension settlement losses of $97 million due to a high level of retirements of salaried employees; termination benefit charges of $40 million primarily for enhanced pension benefits provided to U. S. Steel employees retiring under the TAP; and $7 million for the cost of layoff unemployment benefits provided to non represented employees. Income from sale of certain assets of $43 million in 2004 resulted from the sale in February 2004 of substantially all of the remaining mineral interests administered by our real estate business and certain real estate interests. Income from sale of certain assets of $47 million in 2003 resulted from the sale in April 2003 of certain coal seam gas interests and from the sale in June 2003 of our coal mines and related assets. Gain on timber contribution to pension plan reflected a $55 million gain resulting from the excess of fair value over net book value for timber cutting rights valued at $59 million, which U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed to its defined benefit pension fund in December 2003. Asset impairments of $57 million in 2003 resulted from a non monetary asset exchange with International Steel Group, which was completed effective November 1, 2003, and the impairment of a cost method investment. Costs related to Straightline shutdown consisted of the write down of fixed assets and recognition of certain employee benefit costs resulting from the shutdown of Straightline, which was completed in 2004. Net interest and other financial costs Year Ended December 31, Adjusted(a) (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Net interest and other financial costs $ 72 $ 156 $ 167 Foreign currency losses (gains) 80 (36 ) (54 ) Adjustment from Gary property tax settlement (25 ) Adjustment related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes (38 ) (17 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 33 Total net interest and other financial costs $ 127 $ 115 $ 96 (a) Adjusted from amounts previously reported due to the change in inventory accounting method at USSK. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements. Net interest and other financial costs in 2005 included a favorable adjustment of $25 million related to the Gary property tax settlement. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 and 2003 included favorable adjustments of $38 million and $17 million, respectively, related to interest accrued for prior years income taxes. Net interest and other financial costs in 2004 also included a $33 million charge resulting from the early extinguishment of certain senior debt. Excluding these items, the $32 million increase in 2005 primarily reflected an unfavorable change in foreign currency effects. This was partially offset by lower debt levels resulting from the retirement of USSK long term debt in November 2004 and the redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004, higher interest income and lower interest on tax related liabilities. Excluding the previously identified items, the small increase in 2004 compared to 2003 primarily reflected a smaller foreign currency gain, partially offset by higher interest income and 50 Table of Contents lower interest on tax related liabilities. The foreign currency effects were primarily due to remeasurement of USSK and USSB net monetary assets into the U.S. dollar, which was the functional currency of both prior to January 1, 2006. U. S. Steel is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of our operations outside the United States was the U.S. dollar through December 31, 2005. As of January 1, 2006, the functional currency for USSK and USSB was changed from the U.S. dollar to the euro primarily because of significant changes in economic facts and circumstances as a result of Slovakias entry into the European Union and the subsequent entry of the Slovak koruna into the Exchange Rate Mechanizm II in preparation for Slovakias adoption of the euro. Other factors that contributed to this change are the evolution of USSE into an autonomous business segment, the settlement of its U.S. dollar denominated debt and the establishment of euro based debt facilities. This change in functional currency will be applied on a prospective basis. Income taxes The income tax provision in 2005 was $365 million, compared to $356 million in 2004 and a benefit of $452 million in 2003. The provision in 2005 included a charge of $37 million resulting from the $95 million pre tax gain from the Gary property tax settlement and a $16 million charge resulting from the repatriation of foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. During 2005, a current tax provision was booked for USSK because the provisions of the Slovak Income Tax Act permit USSK to claim a tax credit of 50 percent of its tax liability for years 2005 through 2009, compared to a 100 percent credit in previous years. The provision in 2004 included a charge of $32 million related to the settlement regarding tax benefits for USSK under Slovakias foreign investors tax credit, and a $23 million favorable effect relating to an adjustment of prior years taxes. The tax benefit in 2003 included a favorable effect relating to adjustments of prior years taxes of $19 million. The tax provisions in all three years were primarily the result of pre tax results from domestic operations. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had net U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets of $472 million. The valuation allowance for domestic taxes was reversed through equity in 2004. At December 31, 2005, the amount of net foreign deferred tax assets recorded was $14 million, net of an established valuation allowance of $81 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Serbian deferred tax assets due to the cumulative losses experienced since the acquisition of USSB. If USSB generates sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $58 million for Serbian taxes could be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets will be realized. Management will continue to monitor and assess taxable income, deferred tax assets and tax planning strategies to determine the need for, and the appropriate amount of, any valuation allowance. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes. Net income (loss) Net income in 2005 was $910 million, compared with $1,135 million in 2004 and with a net loss of $420 million in 2003. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2005 increased $480 million from year end 2004 primarily due to increased cash balances (see Cash Flows) and higher inventories, partially offset by a reduction in outstanding accounts receivable. The increase in inventories was mainly due to higher quantities of raw materials. The decrease in accounts receivables primarily resulted from lower sales in the fourth quarter of 2005, compared to the fourth quarter of 2004, due mainly to lower prices and shipment volumes for flat rolled products. 51 Table of Contents FAS No. 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions provides that if, at any plan measurement date, the fair value of plan assets is less than the plans accumulated benefit obligation (ABO), the sponsor must record a minimum liability at least equal to the amount by which the ABO exceeds the fair value of the plan assets and any pension asset must be removed from the balance sheet. The sum of the liability and pension asset is offset by the recognition of an intangible asset and or as a direct charge to stockholders equity, net of tax effects. Such adjustments have no direct impact on earnings per share or cash. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan was measured and it was determined that an additional minimum liability was required for this plan. Consequently, entries were recorded that eliminated prepaid pensions, increased the intangible pension asset by $250 million and resulted in a net charge to equity of $1.37 billion, which increased the accumulated other comprehensive loss. Long term deferred income tax benefits at year end 2005 increased $171 million from year end 2004 and long term deferred income tax liabilities were eliminated, primarily due to the establishment of federal and state deferred tax assets in connection with the additional minimum liability for U. S. Steels main defined benefit pension plan, as well as the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards. Current liabilities at year end 2005 increased $214 million from year end 2004 mainly due to the increase in short term debt and current maturities of long term debt, which primarily reflects amounts drawn against a one year revolving credit facility at USSK. The facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation of $300 million in foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Cash Flows Net cash provided from operating activities of $1,218 million in 2005 and $1,400 million in 2004 was more than adequate to cover investing and financing activities. In 2003, net cash provided from operating activities was $577 million, which was insufficient to cover the acquisitions of National and USSB. The shortfall was covered by the issuance of long term debt and preferred stock. Cash from operating activities was reduced by payments related to employee benefits as shown in the table below. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Employee Benefit Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ (130 ) $ (295 ) $ (16 ) OPEB payments not funded by trusts (213 ) (186 ) (60 ) Contributions to VEBA(a) (60 ) (30 ) Contributions to other OPEB trusts (22 ) (4 ) (19 ) Payments to multiemployer pension plans(b) (28 ) (50 )(c) Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts (24 ) (44 ) (15 ) Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ (477 ) $ (609 ) $ (110 ) (a) All were voluntary except for $10 million in 2005. (b) Primarily the Steelworkers Pension Trust. (c) Includes $11 million related to 2003 hours worked. 52 Table of Contents Capital expenditures were $741 million in 2005, $579 million in 2004 and $316 million in 2003. Domestic expenditures of $492 million in 2005 included spending for the major rebuild of the largest U. S. Steel blast furnace at Gary Works, for environmental projects at our iron ore operations and for coke oven thru wall repairs. European expenditures of $249 million included spending at USSK for air emission reduction projects for cokemaking and steelmaking facilities, for a new automotive galvanizing line, for construction of an air separation plant and for blast furnace upgrades; and spending at USSB for the rehabilitation of the second blast furnace. Domestic expenditures of $356 million in 2004 were spread over several facilities. The most significant expenditures were for improvements to two blast furnaces at Gary Works and a blast furnace at Granite City Works, for transportation equipment and for open pit mining equipment. European expenditures of $223 million were primarily for USSK and included projects to reduce air emissions at the steelmaking facilities, commencement of construction of an air separation plant and completion of the third dynamo line, which began operation in June 2004. At USSB, work on refurbishing the steelmaking shop and the second blast furnace was accelerated. Domestic expenditures in 2003 included the quench and temper line project at Lorain Tubular Operations and other smaller projects, the most significant of which were at Gary Works, Mon Valley Works and Minntac. European expenditures in 2003 included continued work on the third dynamo line and the installation of additional tin mill facilities at USSK. 53 Table of Contents U. S. Steels domestic contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2005, totaled $82 million. USSK has a commitment to the Slovak government for a capital improvements program of $700 million, subject to certain conditions, over a period commencing with the acquisition date of November 24, 2000, and ending on December 31, 2010. The remaining commitment under this capital improvements program as of December 31, 2005, was $53 million. In addition, USSB has a commitment to the Serbian government that requires it to spend up to $157 million during the first five years for working capital; the repair, rehabilitation, improvement, modification and upgrade of facilities; and community support and economic development. USSB spent approximately $156 million (including working capital) through December 31, 2005, leaving a balance of $1 million under this commitment. Capital expenditures for 2006 are expected to be approximately $700 million, reflecting approximately $440 million for domestic operations and $260 million for European operations. Domestic projects include the completion of the rebuild of U. S. Steels largest blast furnace at Gary Works, acquisition of mobile, mining and other production equipment, and coke oven thru wall replacements at Clairton Works. We are also evaluating alternatives to add cokemaking capacity and to enhance energy recovery efficiency. Projects in Slovakia include continued spending for a new automotive galvanizing line, and continuing work on air emission reduction projects in the steelmaking facilities and on a new air separation plant. Projects in Serbia include preparatory work for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace in 2007. The preceding statement concerning expected 2006 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2005 reflected amounts drawn against a USSK credit agreement that was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Common stock repurchased reflected cash utilized to repurchase 5.8 million shares of U. S. Steel common stock during 2005 in the open market. A U. S. Steel common stock repurchase program, which was announced during the third quarter of 2005, allowed for the repurchase of up to eight million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. On January 31, 2006, the Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. Common stock issued in 2004 primarily reflected $294 million of net proceeds from U. S. Steels equity offering completed in March 2004, which were used for the early redemption of certain senior notes in April 2004. This redemption is included in repayment of long term debt, which also reflects the retirement of long term USSK debt in November 2004. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock Series B Preferred Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2005 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.08 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2004 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 2003 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.875 $ 0.875 $ 1.206 $ Dividends were paid out of additional paid in capital while U. S. Steel was in a retained deficit position. The outstanding 7% Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Shares (Series B Preferred) will mandatorily convert into U. S. Steel common stock on June 15, 2006. Based upon the average market price for U. S. Steels common 54 Table of Contents stock over a prescribed period before the conversion, the number of shares that will be issued in exchange for the 5 million shares of Series B Preferred ranges from approximately 16.0 million to 19.2 million. As long as the average closing price of U. S. Steels common stock for the prescribed period is equal to or greater than $15.66 per share, the conversion rate will be 3.1928 common shares for each Series B Preferred share. For discussion of restrictions on future dividend payments, see Liquidity. Liquidity U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement to sell a revolving interest in eligible trade receivables generated by U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries through a commercial paper conduit program with funding under the facility up to the lesser of eligible receivables or $500 million. The Receivables Purchase Agreement expires on November 28, 2006. Qualifying accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. While the Receivables Purchase Agreement expires in November 2006, the facility also terminates on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, certain defaults with respect to the inventory facility discussed in the following paragraph and other debt obligations, any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables and failure to extend the commitments of the commercial paper conduits liquidity providers, which currently terminate on November 22, 2006. As of December 31, 2005, $500 million was available to be sold under this facility. U. S. Steel has a revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings of up to $600 million secured by a lien on our domestic inventory and receivables other than those sold under the Receivables Purchase Agreement (Inventory Facility). The Inventory Facility contains restrictive covenants, many of which apply only when average availability under the facility is less than $100 million, including a fixed charge coverage ratio test. In addition, a $100 million availability block may apply beginning May 1, 2008 until the 10 3/4% senior notes due August 1, 2008 (10 3/4% Senior Notes) are repaid, refinanced or defeased. Interest on borrowings is calculated based on either LIBOR or the agents prime rate using spreads based on facility availability as defined in the agreement. Although there were no amounts drawn against this facility at December 31, 2005, availability was $594 million due to $6 million of letters of credit issued against the facility. This facility expires in October 2009. At December 31, 2005, USSK had no borrowings against its $40 million and $20 million credit facilities, but had $4 million of customs guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $56 million. Both facilities expire in December 2006. USSB was the sole obligor on a EUR 9.3 million committed working capital facility secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods. This facility expired on September 27, 2005. On September 28, 2005, USSB entered into a new EUR 25 million facility (which approximated $30 million at December 31, 2005), which is secured by its inventory of finished and semi finished goods and expires September 28, 2008. At December 31, 2005, USSB had no borrowings against this facility. USSK is the sole obligor on a EUR 195 million revolving credit facility (which approximated $231 million at December 31, 2005) that expires in December 2006. The facility bears interest at EURIBOR plus 20 basis points. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on undrawn amounts. At December 31, 2005, this facility was fully drawn. This facility was entered into in order to facilitate the repatriation by U. S. Steel of certain foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, as discussed in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. In July 2001, U. S. Steel issued $385 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes, and in September 2001, U. S. Steel issued an additional $150 million of 10 3/4% Senior Notes. In May 2003, U. S. Steel issued $450 million of 9 3/4% senior notes due May 15, 2010 (9 3/4% Senior Notes). 55 Table of Contents On April 19, 2004, U. S. Steel redeemed $187 million principal amount of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes at a 10.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $348 million, and redeemed $72 million principal amount of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes at a 9.75 percent premium, resulting in a reduction of the principal amount outstanding to $378 million. These were the aggregate principal amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel redeemed these notes using most of the $294 million net proceeds from an equity offering, which was completed in March 2004. The remaining net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. The 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the 9 3/4% Senior Notes (together, the Senior Notes) impose very similar limitations on U. S. Steels ability to make restricted payments. Restricted payments under the indentures include the declaration or payment of dividends on capital stock; the purchase, redemption or other acquisition or retirement for value of capital stock; the retirement of any subordinated obligations prior to their scheduled maturity; and the making of any investments other than those specifically permitted under the indentures. In order to make restricted payments, U. S. Steel must satisfy certain requirements, which include a consolidated coverage ratio based on EBITDA and consolidated interest expense for the four most recent quarters. In addition, the total of all restricted payments made since the 10 3/4% Senior Notes were issued cannot exceed the cumulative cash proceeds from the sale of capital stock and certain investments plus 50% of consolidated net income from October 1, 2001, through the most recent quarter end treated as one accounting period, or, if there is a consolidated net loss for the period, less 100 percent of such consolidated net loss. A complete description of the requirements and defined terms such as restricted payments, EBITDA and consolidated net income can be found in the indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and in the first supplemental indenture that were filed as Exhibits 4(f) and 4(g) to U. S. Steels Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2001. In conjunction with issuing the 9 3/4% Senior Notes, U. S. Steel solicited the consent of the 10 3/4% Senior Note holders to conform certain terms of the 10 3/4% Senior Notes to the terms of the 9 3/4% Senior Notes. The second supplemental indenture for the 10 3/4% Senior Notes and the Officers Certificate for the 9 3/4% Senior Notes were filed as Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.1, respectively, to U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K dated May 20, 2003. As of December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel met the consolidated coverage ratio and had approximately $1.5 billion of availability to make restricted payments under the calculation described in the preceding paragraph. The Senior Notes indentures also allow U. S. Steel to declare and make payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred, and allow other restricted payments of up to $28 million as of December 31, 2005. U. S. Steels ability to declare and pay dividends or make other restricted payments in the future is subject to U. S. Steels ability to continue to meet the consolidated coverage ratio and have amounts available under the calculation or one of the exclusions just discussed. The Senior Notes also impose other significant restrictions on U. S. Steel such as the following: limits on additional borrowings, including limiting the amount of borrowings secured by inventories or accounts receivable; limits on sale/leasebacks; limits on the use of funds from asset sales and sale of the stock of subsidiaries; and restrictions on U. S. Steels ability to invest in joint ventures or make certain acquisitions. If these covenants are breached or if U. S. Steel fails to make payments under its material debt obligations or the Receivables Purchase Agreement, creditors would be able to terminate their commitments to make further loans, declare their outstanding obligations immediately due and payable and foreclose on any collateral. This may also cause a termination event to occur under the Receivables Purchase Agreement and a default under the Senior Notes. Additional indebtedness that U. S. Steel may incur in the future may also contain similar covenants, as well as other restrictive provisions. Cross default and cross acceleration clauses in the Receivables Purchase Agreement, the Inventory Facility, the Senior Notes and any future additional indebtedness could have an adverse effect upon U. S. Steels financial position and liquidity. U. S. Steel was in compliance with all of its debt covenants at December 31, 2005. U. S. Steel has utilized surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. U. S. Steel has replaced some surety bonds with other forms of financial assurance. The use of other forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $114 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2005, a decrease of $4 million during 2005, and does not expect any material changes in 2006. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel was contingently liable for debt and other obligations of Marathon as of December 31, 2005, in the amount of $2 million. In the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon, these obligations for which U. S. Steel is contingently liable, as well as $556 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases and $41 million relating to certain operating leases, may be declared immediately due and payable. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2005: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents(a) $ 1,452 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amount available under Inventory Facility 594 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 56 Amounts available under USSB credit facility 30 Total estimated liquidity(b) $ 2,632 (a) Excludes $27 million of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. (b) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U.S.Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (a) The Senior Notes contain restrictions that could, under certain circumstances, limit the amount that U. S. Steel is permitted to borrow under its liquidity facilities. (b) Excludes $27 million and $16 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, of cash related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. U. S. Steels liquidity has increased significantly compared to year end 2003 primarily as a result of cash generated from operating activities. 57 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2005, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2006 2007through2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Long term debt and capital leases(a) $ 1,613 $ 249 $ 394 $ 413 $ 557 Operating leases(b) 376 106 121 52 97 Capital commitments(c) 135 49 33 53 Environmental commitments(c) 145 26 119 (d) Steelworkers Pension Trust (e) 29 51 (e) Other postretirement benefits (f) 225 530 500 (f) Total contractual obligations $ 2,269 (g) $ 684 $ 1,129 $ 965 $ 826 (g) (a) See Note 18 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (d) Timing of potential cash flows is not determinable. (e) It is impossible to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the USWA labor contract, which expires in 2008. (f) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for these benefit obligations under plans covering its active and retiree populations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These obligations will require corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2006 through 2010 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and are net of the projected use of funds available from asset trusts. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the mix of assets within the asset trusts, medical escalation and discount rates used to calculate obligations, the availability of surplus pension assets allowable for transfer to pay retiree medical claims and company decisions or Voluntary Employee Benefit Association restrictions that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Also, as such, the amounts shown could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. (g) Amount of contractual cash obligations is not determinable because other post retirement benefit cash obligation estimates are not reliable beyond five years, as discussed in (f) above. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table. In 2005, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $130 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $24 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2004, U. S. Steel voluntarily contributed $295 million to its main domestic defined benefit pension plan. Further cash payments of $44 million were made to pension plans not funded by trusts. In 2003, U. S. Steel made a $75 million voluntary contribution to the main defined benefit pension plan, consisting mainly of timber assets, and made contributions of $15 million to other smaller pension plans. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional contributions of up to $260 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and OPEB by the end of 2007. Voluntary funding of approximately $130 million is currently anticipated for the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in 2006. U. S. Steel also expects to make cash payments of $13 million to pension plans not funded by trusts in 2006. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions in one or more future periods in order to mitigate potentially larger required contributions in later years. The amount of annual contributions may be substantially increased if Congress adopts pension reform legislation such as that currently under consideration. Any such funding could have an unfavorable impact on U. S. Steels debt covenants, borrowing arrangements and cash flows. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension 58 Table of Contents plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Also, profit based contributions to a trust to be established under the labor agreement with the USWA to assist National retirees with health care costs have been excluded from the above table as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments required under this provision of the labor agreement. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2005, and the effect such commitments could have on its liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2006 2007through 2008 2009through2010 Beyond2010 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 83 $ 75 $ $ $ 8 (c) Surety bonds(a) 16 4 12 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 34 34 Clairton 1314B Partnership(a)(b)(d) 150 150 (c) Guarantees of indebtedness of unconsolidated entities(a)(d) 10 8 1 1 Contingent liabilities: Unconditional purchase obligations(e) 3,886 2,507 1,078 195 106 Total commercial commitments $ 4,179 $ 2,594 $ 1,079 $ 195 $ 311 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) See Note 19 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. (d) See Note 29 to the Financial Statements. (e) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy its obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Increases in interest rates can increase the cost of future borrowings and make it more difficult to raise capital. This opinion is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than current levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements In the fourth quarter of 2005, U. S. Steel provided irrevocable notice to purchase the Gary Works co generation facility in the second quarter of 2006; therefore, the agreement for the supply of electric power (previously expiring in 2011) will be terminated. U. S. Steel has an off balance sheet arrangement for the leasing of certain machinery and equipment at the Great Lakes facility. This operating lease arrangement is with a special purpose trust (Trust). The Trust financed the construction of the facility and issued debt and equity certificates to third parties. These independent third parties are the beneficiaries of the Trust. U. S. Steel has provided no guarantees or capitalization of this entity and there is no assurance that U. S. Steel will purchase the facility at lease expiration. U. S. Steels transactions with the Trust are limited to the operating lease agreement, and the associated lease expense is included in cost of sales on the Statement of Operations. U. S. Steel does not consolidate this Trust because all of the conditions for consolidation have not been met under the provisions of FIN 46R, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of ARB No. 51. 59 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has agreed to guarantee a portion of the debt of the entity and, in others, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, the labor force used by the investees is composed of U. S. Steel employees, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. For further information on the impact of FIN 46R, see Note 19 to the Financial Statements. Other guarantees and indemnifications are discussed in detail in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel has a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utility products at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a co generation facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. The Midwest Plant is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay an annual capacity fee. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, replacing a similar agreement that was entered into by National, which was not assumed as part of the acquisition. During the initial 5 year period, the Great Lakes facility is obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. This agreement resulted in an increase of approximately $45 million in U. S. Steels unconditional purchase obligations. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that its major domestic integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills and some foreign steel producers and producers of materials which compete with steel, which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to its prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Domestic integrated facilities that have emerged from bankruptcy proceedings, mini mills and other competitors generally do not have similar liabilities. USSK is subject to the laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). The environmental requirements of Slovakia and the EU are comparable to domestic environmental standards. USSK has entered into an agreement with the Slovak government to bring its facilities into environmental compliance in order to meet environmental standards as established from time to time by Slovak law. One current compliance project is a dedusting system 60 Table of Contents for Steel Shop No. 2 to meet air emission standards for particulates. These standards are applicable January 1, 2007 and USSK is attempting to complete the project by this deadline; however, project completion is currently anticipated for the first quarter 2007. Failure to meet the applicable deadline could result in the imposition of corrective measures by the Slovak Ministry of Environment (Ministry). While the United States has not ratified the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC), in order to provide EU member states a mechanism for fulfilling their Kyoto commitments, has established its own CO2 limits for every EU member state. In 2004, the EC approved a national allocation plan for Slovakia that reduced Slovakias originally proposed CO2 allocation by approximately 14 percent, and following that decision the Ministry imposed an 8 percent reduction to the amount of CO2 allowances originally requested by USSK. Subsequently, USSK filed legal actions agains the EC and the Ministry challenging these reductions. In addition, USSK is evaluating a number of alternatives ranging from purchasing CO2 allowances to reducing steel production, and it is not currently possible to predict the impact of these decisions on USSK. However, the actual shortfall of allowances for the initial allocation period (2005 through 2007) will depend upon a number of internal and external variables and the effect of that shortfall on USSK cannot be predicted at this time. Based on the fair value of the anticipated shortfall of allowances related to production in 2005, a long term other liability of $4 million has been charged to income and recorded on the balance sheet. Domestically, while ratification of the Kyoto Protocol does not seem likely in the near term, there remains the possibility that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency may impose limitations on greenhouse gases. The impact on U. S. Steels domestic operations cannot be estimated. USSB is subject to the laws of the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which are currently more lenient than either the EU or U.S. standards, but this is expected to change over the next several years in anticipation of possible EU accession. Under the terms of the acquisition, USSB will be responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study. The study was completed in June 2004 and submitted to the Government of Serbia in accordance with the terms of the acquisition. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures(a): (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Domestic: Capital $ 66 $ 24 $ 8 Compliance Operating & maintenance 305 241 206 Remediation(b) 23 18 38 Total Domestic $ 394 $ 283 $ 252 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 97 $ 22 Compliance Operating & maintenance 12 8 10 Remediation(b) 3 3 3 Total USSE $ 82 $ 108 $ 35 Total U. S. Steel $ 476 $ 391 $ 287 (a) Based on previously established U.S. Department of Commerce survey guidelines. (b) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 18 percent of total capital expenditures in 2005, 21 percent in 2004 and 10 percent in 2003. Compliance expenditures represented 3 percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2005, 2 percent in 2004 and 3 percent in 2003. Remediation spending during 2003 to 2005 was mainly related to remediation 61 Table of Contents activities at former and present operating locations. These projects include remediation of contaminated sediments in the Grand Calumet River that receives discharges from Gary Works and the closure of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at its Fairless Plant and its former Geneva Works. A RCRA corrective action program has been initiated at Gary Works and Fairfield Works. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. During 2005, U. S. Steel accrued $49 million for environmental remediation activities for domestic and foreign facilities. The total accrual for such liabilities at December 31, 2005, was $145 million. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations under FAS No. 143. New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information, and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2006. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $113 million in 2006, $61 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2006 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $76 million in 2007, including $60 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. U. S. Steel is a defendant in approximately 500 active asbestos cases, involving approximately 8,400 plaintiffs. Many of these cases involve multiple defendants (typically from fifty to more than one hundred defendants). More than 8,000, or approximately 95 percent, of these claims are pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. On March 28, 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois returned a verdict against U. S. Steel for $50 million in compensatory damages and $200 million in punitive damages. U. S. Steel believes that the court erred as a matter of law by failing to find that the plaintiffs exclusive remedy was provided by the Indiana workers compensation law. U. S. Steel believes that this issue and other errors at trial would have enabled U. S. Steel to succeed on appeal. However, in order to avoid the delay and uncertainties of further litigation and the posting of a large appeal bond in excess of the amount of the verdict, U. S. Steel settled this case for an amount which was substantially less than the compensatory damages award and which represented a small fraction of the total award. This settlement is reflected in the results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003, and for the year ended December 31, 2003. The Senate Judiciary Committee has recommended to the Senate legislation that, if enacted, would create an asbestos trust fund that would provide benefits to asbestos claimants funded by payments over 30 years of 62 Table of Contents $136 billion from companies and their insurers that have been involved in asbestos litigation, including U. S. Steel along with thousands of others. The legislation would provide an administrative system to process asbestos claims instead of resolution through judicial proceedings. The amount that a company would be required to pay under the current version of the legislation would depend upon its placement among several tiers and sub tiers, based upon corporate revenue and prior expenditures related to asbestos defense costs, settlements and judgments. Management estimates that if the legislation were adopted in the form proposed by the Judiciary Committee, the annual cost to U. S. Steel would be somewhat greater than the historical cost of asbestos defense and settlement. It is unclear whether any legislation will be adopted and any final legislation may be substantially different than the version recommended by the Judiciary Committee. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional detail concerning asbestos litigation, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 29 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. Outlook for 2006 The first quarter of 2006 looks positive for our domestic and European markets. Service center and end customer inventories are balanced and we expect continued strength in the energy markets served by our Tubular segment. For Flat rolled, first quarter 2006 shipments are expected to improve compared to the fourth quarter of 2005 due to the restart of the Gary No. 14 blast furnace, with prices at or above the fourth quarter level. We expect higher raw material costs to be largely offset by reduced energy and outage costs. For U. S. Steel Europe, first quarter shipments are expected to increase and average realized prices and costs should be consistent with fourth quarter levels. However, first quarter results will be negatively affected by production curtailments at Serbian operations as a result of natural gas supply disruptions and could also be negatively affected by potential job related actions by a labor union at USSB that is dissatisfied with the 2006 wage agreement, which became effective upon approval of the other unions. Shipments and average realized prices for the Tubular segment in the first quarter of 2006 are expected to be in line with the fourth quarter. First quarter 2006 results for Other Businesses should decline from the fourth quarter due primarily to normal seasonal variations at our iron ore operations in Minnesota. Total costs for pension plans and other postretirement benefits are expected to be approximately $300 million in 2006, compared to $390 million in 2005. Accounting Standards In December 2004, the FASB issued FAS No. 123R. This Statement establishes standards for accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value 63 Table of Contents of the entitys equity instruments or that may be settled by the issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, thereby reflecting the economic consequences of those transactions in the financial statements. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) approved a new rule that delayed the effective date of FAS 123R. Except for this deferral of the effective date, the guidance in FAS 123R is unchanged. Under the SECs rule, FAS 123R is now effective for U. S. Steel for annual rather than interim periods that begin after June 15, 2005. U. S. Steel will apply this Statement to all awards granted on or after January 1, 2006 and to awards modified, repurchased, or cancelled after that date. Compensation cost will be recognized on and after January 1, 2006 for the portion of outstanding awards for which requisite service has not yet been rendered, based on the grant date fair value of these awards calculated under FAS 123 for proforma disclosures. Currently, U. S. Steel expects that the effect of adopting this Statement on 2006 results will be a reduction to net income of less than $10 million. In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143. This Interpretation clarifies that an entity is required to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists. U. S. Steel adopted the provisions of this Interpretation in the second quarter of 2005. There were no financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Interpretation. In May 2005, the FASB issued FAS 154, which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. FAS 154 eliminates the requirement to include the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle in the income statement and instead requires that changes in accounting principle be retroactively applied. FAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and correction of errors made on or after January 1, 2006, with early adoption permitted. U. S. Steel began applying the provisions of this statement in the fourth quarter of 2005. In February 2006, the FASB issued FAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. This Statement resolves issues addressed in Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. D1, Application of Statement 133 to Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets, and is effective for all financial instruments acquired or issued after the beginning of an entitys first fiscal year that begins after September 15, 2006. U. S. Steel does not expect any financial statement implications related to the adoption of this Statement. Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage its market risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative instruments used for trading and other activities have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in income from operations. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain transactions, primarily related to forecasted natural gas purchases. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the natural gas purchase is settled. Once the purchase is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on financial position or liquidity. For a summary of accounting policies related to derivative instruments, see Note 1 to the Financial Statements. 64 Table of Contents Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of its business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and certain nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for its products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel uses derivative commodity instruments (primarily over the counter commodity swaps) to manage exposure to fluctuations in the purchase price of natural gas and certain nonferrous metals. The use of these instruments has not been significant in relation to U. S. Steels overall business activity. U. S. Steel had no open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2005. Sensitivity analyses of the incremental effects on pre tax income of hypothetical 10 percent and 25 percent decreases in closing commodity prices for open derivative commodity instruments as of December 31, 2004 are provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) Assuming a Hypothetical PriceDecrease of: 2005 2004 Commodity Based Derivative Instruments 10% 25% 10% 25% Incremental Decrease in Income Before Taxes: Zinc $ 2.9 $ 7.2 Natural Gas $ 1.8 $ 4.4 Management evaluates the portfolio of derivative commodity instruments on an ongoing basis and adjusts strategies to reflect anticipated market conditions, changes in risk profiles and overall business objectives. Changes to the portfolio subsequent to December 31, 2005, may cause future pretax income effects to differ from those presented in the table. U. S. Steel recorded a net pre tax gain on other than trading activity of $7 million in 2005, compared to gains of $4 million in 2004 and $1 million in 2003. These gains were offset by changes in the realized prices of the underlying hedged commodities. For carrying amount and fair value of derivative commodity instruments, see Note 26 to the Financial Statements. 65 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of its non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in year end 2005 and 2004 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2005 2004 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 18 $ $ 7 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 1,568 $ 36 $ 1,419 $ 50 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2005, and 2004, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. (d) For additional information, see Note 15 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on market prices where available, or estimated borrowing rates for financings with similar maturities. For additional information, see Note 18 to the Financial Statements. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt was comprised primarily of fixed rate instruments. Therefore, the fair value of the portfolio is relatively sensitive to effects of interest rate fluctuations. This sensitivity is illustrated by the $36 million increase in the fair value of long term debt assuming a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates. However, U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of its debt portfolio would unfavorably affect U. S. Steels results and cash flows only to the extent that U. S. Steel elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of its fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, primarily through USSE, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars, in particular the euro, the Slovak koruna and the Serbian dinar. U. S. Steel has not generally used derivative instruments to manage this risk. However, U. S. Steel has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. At December 31, 2005, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sale contracts for both U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $23.1 million) and Slovak koruna (total notional value of approximately $61.6 million). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2005 euro forward rates would result in a $8.5 million charge to income. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 66 Table of Contents 
 
