Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are uncertain. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For additional factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel, see Item 1A. Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. References in this Annual Report on Form 10 K to U. S. Steel, the Company, we, us and our refer to U. S. Steel and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated by the context. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS U. S. Steel is an integrated steel producer of flat rolled and tubular products with major production operations in North America and Europe. An integrated producer uses iron ore and coke as primary raw materials for steel production. U. S. Steel has annual raw steel production capability of 31.7 million net tons (tons) (24.3 million tons in North America and 7.4 million tons in Europe). According to World Steel Associations latest published statistics, we were the tenth largest steel producer in the world in 2008. U. S. Steel is also engaged in other business activities, most of which are related to steelmaking operations, including the production of coke and iron ore pellets, and transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations, and engineering consulting services. The global economic recession has greatly affected many of the markets that we serve and continues to have significant negative effects on our business. For further discussion, see Business Strategy, Risk Factors, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. 4 Table of Contents 5 Table of Contents Segments U. S. Steel has three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2008, the operating results of our iron ore operations, which were previously included in Other Businesses, are included in the Flat rolled segment. The iron ore operations are managed as part of our Flat rolled segment, which consumes almost all of our iron ore production. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this change. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels North American integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of slabs, rounds, strip mill plates, sheets and tin mill products, as well as all iron ore and coke production facilities in the United States and Canada. The steel rounds and a portion of the hot rolled sheets produced by Flat rolled are supplied to the Tubular segment. These operations primarily serve North American customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), construction, container, and appliance and electrical markets. Flat rolled has annual raw steel production capability of 24.3 million tons. Flat rolled had annual raw steel production capability of 20.2 million tons for the year ended December 31, 2007 as annual raw steel production capability includes U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Raw steel production was 11.7 million tons in 2009, 19.2 million tons in 2008 and 16.8 million tons in 2007. Raw steel production averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009, 79 percent of capability in 2008 and 83 percent of capability in 2007. The USSE segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and coke production facilities in Slovakia; U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and other facilities in Serbia; and equity investees located in Europe. USSE primarily serves customers in the European construction, service center, conversion, container, transportation (including automotive), appliance and electrical, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. USSE produces and sells slabs, sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill products and spiral welded pipe, as well as heating radiators and refractory ceramic materials. USSE has annual raw steel production capability of 7.4 million tons. USSEs raw steel production was 5.1 million tons in 2009, 6.4 million tons in 2008 and 6.8 million tons in 2007. USSEs raw steel production averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009, 86 percent of capability in 2008 and 92 percent of capability in 2007. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels tubular production facilities, primarily in the United States, and equity investees in the United States and Brazil. These operations produce and sell seamless and electric resistance welded (ERW) steel casing and tubing (commonly known as oil country tubular goods or OCTG), standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. Tubulars annual production capability is 2.8 million tons. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses include transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations and engineering consulting services. For further information, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. 6 Table of Contents Financial and Operational Highlights Net Sales (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Net Sales by Segment (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2009 2008 2007(b) Flat rolled(a) $ 6,814 $ 13,789 $ 9,986 USSE 2,944 5,487 4,667 Tubular 1,216 4,251 1,985 Total sales from reportable segments 10,974 23,527 16,638 Other Businesses(a) 74 227 235 Net sales $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 (a) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements. (b) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. (Loss) Income from Operations (IFO) (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. 7 Table of Contents (Loss) Income from Operations by Segment(a) Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 2007(c) Flat rolled(b) $ (1,438 ) $ 1,390 $ 382 USSE (208 ) 491 687 Tubular 57 1,207 356 Total (loss) income from reportable segments (1,589 ) 3,088 1,425 Other Businesses(b) (2 ) 77 84 Segment (loss) income from operations (1,591 ) 3,165 1,509 Retiree benefit expenses (134 ) (22 ) (143 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Federal excise tax refund 34 Litigation reserve 45 (45 ) Net gain on the sale of assets 97 Environmental remediation charge (49 ) (23 ) Workforce reduction charges (86 ) (57 ) Deferred gain recognition 150 Labor agreement signing payments (105 ) Asset impairment charge (28 ) Flat rolled inventory transition effects (23 ) (58 ) Tubular inventory transition effects (38 ) Total (loss) income from operations $ (1,684 ) $ 3,069 $ 1,213 (a) See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280. (b) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. (c) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Steel Shipments (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. 8 Table of Contents Steel Shipments by Product and Segment The following table does not include shipments to end customers by joint ventures and other equity investees of U. S. Steel, but instead reflects the shipments of substrate materials, primarily hot rolled and cold rolled sheets, to those entities. (Thousands of Tons) Flat rolled USSE Tubular Total Product 2009 Hot rolled Sheets 3,173 1,896 5,069 Cold rolled Sheets 3,152 655 3,807 Coated Sheets 1,882 793 2,675 Tin Mill Products 1,253 534 1,787 Oil country tubular goods (OCTG) 420 420 Standard and line pipe 5 155 160 Semi finished, Bars and Plates 401 498 899 Other 82 82 164 TOTAL 9,861 4,463 657 14,981 Memo: Intersegment Shipments from Flat rolled to Tubular Hot rolled sheets 381 Rounds 117 Product 2008 Hot rolled Sheets 6,474 2,142 8,616 Cold rolled Sheets 4,489 1,195 5,684 Coated Sheets 3,554 733 4,287 Tin Mill Products 1,387 605 1,992 Oil country tubular goods (OCTG) 1,292 1,292 Standard and line pipe 9 480 489 Semi finished, Bars and Plates 941 867 1,808 Other 100 180 280 TOTAL 16,845 5,651 1,952 24,448 Memo: Intersegment Shipments from Flat rolled to Tubular Hot rolled sheets 1,108 Rounds 768 Product 2007 Hot rolled Sheets 4,887 2,346 7,233 Cold rolled Sheets 4,238 1,402 5,640 Coated Sheets 3,743 595 4,338 Tin Mill Products 1,288 618 1,906 Oil country tubular goods (OCTG) 835 835 Standard and line pipe 9 411 420 Semi finished, Bars and Plates 378 1,087 1,465 Other 82 176 258 TOTAL 14,534 6,139 1,422 22,095 Memo: Intersegment Shipments from Flat rolled to Tubular Hot rolled sheets 305 Rounds 608 9 Table of Contents Steel Shipments by Market and Segment The following table does not include shipments to end customers by joint ventures and other equity investees of U. S. Steel. Shipments of materials to these entities are included in the Further Conversion Joint Ventures market classification. No single customer accounted for more than 10 percent of gross annual revenues. (Thousands of Tons) Flat rolled USSE Tubular Total Major Market 2009 Steel Service Centers 1,998 882 1 2,881 Further Conversion Trade Customers 2,203 461 11 2,675 Joint Ventures 1,283 1,283 Transportation (Including Automotive) 1,258 387 4 1,649 Construction and Construction Products 653 1,615 22 2,290 Containers 1,296 517 1,813 Appliances and Electrical Equipment 755 248 1,003 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 17 619 636 Exports from the United States 322 322 All Other 93 336 429 TOTAL 9,861 4,463 657 14,981 Major Market 2008 Steel Service Centers 3,871 1,239 16 5,126 Further Conversion Trade Customers 3,368 546 34 3,948 Joint Ventures 1,770 1,770 Transportation (Including Automotive) 2,550 590 8 3,148 Construction and Construction Products 1,333 1,745 3,078 Containers 1,421 615 2,036 Appliances and Electrical Equipment 1,115 503 1,618 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 9 1,737 1,746 Exports from the United States 808 118 926 All Other 609 404 39 1,052 TOTAL 16,845 5,651 1,952 24,448 Major Market 2007 Steel Service Centers 3,151 1,264 4,415 Further Conversion Trade Customers 2,277 897 1 3,175 Joint Ventures 2,037 2,037 Transportation (Including Automotive) 2,629 493 1 3,123 Construction and Construction Products 1,045 1,847 2,892 Containers 1,301 563 1,864 Appliances and Electrical Equipment 1,055 489 1,544 Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 10 1,330 1,340 Exports from the United States 566 90 656 All Other 473 576 1,049 TOTAL 14,534 6,139 1,422 22,095 10 Table of Contents Business Strategy Following several years of strong performance, the steel industry and U. S. Steel were quickly and severely impacted by the global recession starting in late 2008. In response to these economic conditions, our strategy has been to enhance our liquidity, maintain a solid balance sheet and position ourselves for success in the longer term. In late 2008 and early 2009, we idled all or portions of numerous steel making, finishing, raw materials and tubular operations in the U.S., Canada and Europe and operated our remaining facilities at reduced levels to match our customers lower demand requirements. We continue to monitor the impact of the economic situation on our customers and to adjust our operations to efficiently meet their requirements. Our raw steel capability utilization rate in 2009 was 48% for Flat rolled operations and 69% for USSE operations. With respect to financial matters, we reduced our quarterly dividend, completed successful offerings of senior convertible notes and common stock and renegotiated the provisions of existing financial covenants with lenders. We initiated substantial cost reduction activities at all locations, including reducing our non represented workforce through restructuring, attrition and early retirement programs. We agreed with the United Steel Workers to defer certain mandatory trust contributions, implemented a hiring freeze, eliminated merit pay salary increases, suspended the Company match on our 401(k) program, and reduced fees for Board of Directors and base salaries for all general managers and executives. We significantly reduced our capital expenditures for 2009 from the original plan of $740 million to $472 million by focusing largely on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. We voluntarily contributed $140 million to the main defined benefit plan as we still believe that this is appropriate to mitigate larger potential funding requirements in the future. We refinanced $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds extending their maturity dates from 2011 to maturity dates ranging from 2017 to 2030. We ended the year with total liquidity of $2.5 billion, an improvement of nearly $300 million from the average of the previous five year ends. Our commercial focus is to provide value added steel products including advanced high strength steel and coated sheets for the automotive and appliance industries, electrical steel sheets for the manufacture of motors and electrical equipment, galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets for the construction and automotive industries, tin mill products for the container industry and oil country tubular goods for the oil and gas industry including the development of North American shale natural gas resources. In addition, our European operations concentrate on being a dependable source of high quality steel to meet the needs of the developing central European markets. Over the long term, our strategy is to be forward looking, grow responsibly, generate a competitive return on capital and meet our financial and stakeholder obligations. We remain committed to being a world leader in safety and environmental stewardship; improving our quality, cost competitiveness and customer service; and to attracting, developing and retaining a diverse workforce with the talent and skills needed for our long term success. We continue to evaluate investments of long term strategic importance, including projects: to invest in the production of coke and coke substitutes, given that some of our existing coke batteries are approaching the end of their useful lives; to reduce coke requirements in Serbia through blast furnace coal injection; to enhance our Tubular operations in order to more efficiently serve customers increased focus on shale natural gas resources; and to allow us to increase our participation in the automotive market as vehicle emission and safety requirements become more stringent. 11 Table of Contents During 2009,the five year trends for both our global rate of recordable injuries and our global days away from work rate showed improvement of 42 percent and 60 percent, respectively, as shown in the following graphs. We continue to assess North American and international expansion and divestment opportunities and carefully weigh them in light of changing global steel and financial market conditions and long term value considerations. We may consider 100 percent acquisition opportunities, joint ventures and other arrangements. We are continuing our efforts to implement an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to help us operate more efficiently. The completion of the ERP project is expected to provide further opportunities to streamline, standardize and centralize business processes in order to maximize cost effectiveness, efficiency and control across our global operations. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions regarding benefits resulting from the implementation of the ERP project are subject to uncertainties. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP project without experiencing difficulties. In addition, the expected benefits of implementing the ERP project might not be realized or the costs of implementation might outweigh the benefits realized. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Given the early retirement programs completed in 2009, the number of remaining employees eligible for retirement in the near future and the restrictions on hiring that we imposed in response to the global recession (see Risk Factors Other Risk Factors applicable to U. S. Steel), recruiting, developing and retaining a diverse workforce and a world class leadership team are crucial to the long term success of our company. Steel Industry Background and Competition The global steel industry is cyclical, highly competitive and has historically been characterized by overcapacity. 12 Table of Contents We believe that U. S. Steel is currently the tenth largest steel producer in the world, the largest integrated steel producer headquartered in North America, one of the largest integrated flat rolled producers in Central Europe and the largest tubular producer in North America. U. S. Steel competes with many North American and international steel producers. Competitors include integrated producers which, like U. S. Steel, use iron ore and coke as primary raw materials for steel production, and mini mills, which primarily use steel scrap and other iron bearing feedstocks as raw materials. In addition, other products, such as plastics and composites, compete with steel in some applications. Mini mills typically require lower capital expenditures for construction of facilities and may have lower total employment costs; however, these competitive advantages may be minimized or eliminated by the cost of scrap when scrap prices are high. Some mini mills utilize thin slab casting technology to produce flat rolled products and are increasingly able to compete directly with integrated producers of flat rolled products, who are generally able to manufacture a broader range of products. U. S. Steel provides defined benefit pension and or other postretirement benefits to approximately 129,000 retirees and their beneficiaries. Mini mills and most of our other competitors do not have comparable retiree obligations. International competitors may have lower labor costs than U.S. producers and some are owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, allowing their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political, social and economic policy considerations, as well as prevailing market conditions. Historically, we have had adequate iron ore pellet production in North America to meet our needs. We are also currently about 80 percent self sufficient for coke in North America at normal operating levels through our own coke production facilities and a long term coke supply agreement. We also have long term contracts for most of our required coking coal. Our relatively balanced raw materials position in North America and limited dependence on purchased steel scrap have helped mitigate the volatility of our production costs. Coke production in North America has declined over the last several years due mainly to the shut down of one coke battery at Gary Works in 2005 and three coke batteries at the Clairton Plant in 2009. Improving our coke self sufficiency is an important strategic objective. We do not produce enough coke to meet our global requirements and, absent additional investment in coke or coke substitute production facilities, our North American coke production capability is likely to decline further over the next five years given that some of our existing coke batteries in the United States are approaching the end of their useful lives. As a result, we may be further exposed to risks concerning pricing and availability of coke from third parties. Demand for flat rolled products is influenced by a wide variety of factors, including but not limited to macro economic drivers, the supply demand balance, inventories, imports and exports, currency fluctuations, and the demand from flat rolled consuming markets. The largest drivers of domestic consumption have historically been the automotive and construction markets which make up more than 50 percent of total sheet consumption. Other sheet consuming industries include appliance, converter, container, tin, energy, electrical equipment, agricultural, domestic and commercial equipment and industrial machinery. USSE conducts business primarily in Europe. Like our domestic operations, USSE is affected by the cyclical nature of demand for steel products and the sensitivity of that demand to worldwide general economic conditions. We are subject to market conditions in those areas which are influenced by many of the same factors that affect U.S. markets, as well as matters specific to international markets such as quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. USSE is subject to different environmental regulations and other factors, that could negatively affect results of operations and cash flow. These environmental regulations and other factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, currency fluctuations, increased regulation and limits on production. Demand for oil country tubular goods depends on several factors, most notably the number of oil and natural gas wells being drilled, completed and re worked, the depth and drilling conditions of these wells and the drilling techniques utilized. The level of these activities depends primarily on the demand for natural gas and oil and the expectation of future prices of these commodities. Demand for our tubular products is also affected by the continuing development of shale natural gas resources, the level of inventories maintained by manufacturers, distributors, and end users and by the level of imports in the markets we serve. 13 Table of Contents Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 22 percent of the U.S. steel market in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 22 percent in 2007. Increases in future levels of imported steel could reduce future market prices and demand levels for steel produced in our North American facilities. Imports of flat rolled steel to Canada accounted for an estimated 35 percent of the Canadian market for flat rolled steel products in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 27 percent in 2007. Many of these imports have violated U.S. or Canadian trade laws. Under these laws, duties can be imposed against dumped products, which are products sold at a price that is below that producers sales price in its home market or at a price that is lower than its cost of production. Countervailing duties can be imposed against products that benefited from foreign government financial assistance for the benefit of the production, manufacture, or exportation of the product. For many years, U. S. Steel, other producers, customers and the United Steelworkers (USW) have sought the imposition of duties and in many cases have been successful. Such duties are generally subject to review every five years and we actively participate in such review proceedings. On April 3, 2008, U. S. Steel, along with Maverick Tube Corporation, Tex Tube Company and the USW filed anti dumping and countervailing duty petitions for welded line pipe up to and including 16 inches against China and antidumping petitions against Korea. Korea was dropped from the case. On December 22, 2008, the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC) ruled affirmatively that the U.S. industry is materially injured or threatened with material injury by reason of subsidized imports of welded line pipe from China. The countervailing duty rates currently range from 33.43 percent to 40.05 percent. On April 23, 2009, the ITC ruled affirmatively that the U.S. industry is materially injured or is threatened with material injury by reason of dumped imports of welded line pipe from China. The anti dumping duty rates currently range from 73.87 percent to 101.10 percent. On April 8, 2009, U. S. Steel, Maverick Tube Corporation, TMK Ipsco, V&M Star L.P., Evraz S.A., Rocky Mountain Steel, Inc., Wheatland Tube Company and the USW filed anti dumping and countervailing duty (subsidy) petitions regarding certain oil country tubular goods (OCTG) from China. The petitions were filed in response to an unprecedented surge of imports from China, increasing from 900 thousand net tons in 2007 to nearly 2.3 million net tons in 2008. On May 22, 2009, the ITC determined unanimously that there is a reasonable indication that the U.S. industry is threatened with material injury by reason of imports of OCTG from China that are allegedly sold at less than fair value and subsidized by the government of China. On November 5, 2009, the Department of Commerce (DOC) announced preliminary anti dumping duties ranging from 0 to 99.1 percent. On November 24, 2009, the DOC announced final countervailing duties ranging from 10.3 to 15.7 percent. Final DOC anti dumping duty determinations are due April 1, 2010. On December 1, 2009, the ITC held a final hearing as to whether the U.S. industry is materially injured or threatened with material injury by reason of subsidized and dumped imports of OCTG from China. On December 30, 2009, the ITC voted unanimously in the affirmative on injury due to subsidized imports. The ITC vote on injury by reason of dumped imports is expected to take place in the second quarter of 2010. On September 16, 2009, U. S. Steel and V&M Star filed antidumping and countervailing duty petitions regarding certain seamless carbon and alloy steel standard, line and pressure pipe from China. Subsequently, TMK Ipsco and the USW joined the case as petitioners. The petitions were filed in response to an incredible surge of seamless pipe imports from China. The volume of U.S. imports from China soared from 158,128 net tons in 2006 to 366,091 net tons in 2008. The ITC voted unanimously on October 30, 2009 that there is a reasonable indication that the U.S. industry is threatened with material injury by reason of subsidized and dumped imports of certain seamless pipe from China. The affirmative vote causes the investigation to continue with the DOC making preliminary and final countervailing and anti dumping determinations during the first half of 2010. Total imports of flat rolled carbon steel products (excluding quarto plates and wide flats) to the EU27 (the 27 countries currently comprising the European Union (EU)) were 15 percent of the EU market in 2009, 19 percent in 2008 and 17 percent in 2007. Imported steel to the EU market coupled with declining demand starting late in 2008 contributed to record levels of inventory, all of which resulted in weakening market prices in late 2008 and early 2009. We expect to continue to experience competition from imports and will continue to closely monitor imports of products in which we have an interest. Additional complaints may be filed if unfairly traded imports adversely impact, or threaten to adversely impact, financial results. 14 Table of Contents U. S. Steels businesses are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, emission and discharge of environmentally sensitive materials. U. S. Steel believes that our major North American and many European integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar environmental conditions and thus does not believe that our relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on U. S. Steels competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills, some foreign steel producers (particularly in developing economies such as China) and producers of materials which compete with steel, all of which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to our prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Many of our competitors have fewer historical liabilities. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Many nations have adopted or are considering regulation of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States has passed a bill in the House of Representatives and a bill has been introduced in the Senate. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. Some foreign nations such as China and India are not aggressively pursuing regulation of CO2 and integrated steel producers in such countries may achieve a competitive advantage over U. S. Steel. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. U. S. Steel is subject to foreign currency exchange risks as a result of its European and Canadian operations. USSEs revenues are primarily in euros and its costs are primarily in U.S. dollars, euros and Serbian dinars. USSCs revenues and costs are denominated in both Canadian and U.S. dollars. In addition, the acquisition of USSC was funded from the United States and through the reinvestment of undistributed foreign earnings from USSE, creating intercompany monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities involved, which can impact income when they are remeasured at the end of each quarter. An $892 million U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary was the primary exposure at December 31, 2009. Facilities and Locations Flat rolled Except for the Fairfield pipe mill, the operating results of all the facilities within U. S. Steels integrated steel mills in North America are included in Flat rolled. These facilities include Gary Works, Great Lakes Works, Mon Valley Works, Granite City Works, Lake Erie Works, Fairfield Works and Hamilton Works. The operating results of U. S. Steels coke and iron ore pellet operations and many equity investees in North America are also included in Flat rolled. Gary Works, located in Gary, Indiana, has annual raw steel production capability of 7.5 million tons. Gary Works has three coke batteries, four blast furnaces, six steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit and four continuous slab casters. Gary Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells coke by products. Finishing facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, three temper mills, a double cold reduction line, four annealing facilities, two tin coating lines and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets and tin mill products. Gary Works also produces strip mill plate. The Midwest Plant and East Chicago Tin are operated as part of Gary Works. The Midwest Plant, located in Portage, Indiana, processes hot rolled bands and produces tin mill products and hot dip galvanized, cold rolled and electrical lamination sheets. Midwest facilities include a pickling line, two cold reduction mills, two temper mills, a double cold reduction mill, two annealing facilities, two hot dip galvanizing lines, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. 15 Table of Contents East Chicago Tin is located in East Chicago, Indiana and produces tin mill products. Facilities include a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, two annealing facilities, a temper mill, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. Great Lakes Works, located in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan, has annual raw steel production capability of 3.8 million tons. Great Lakes facilities include three blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, three annealing facilities, a temper mill, an electrolytic galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets. Mon Valley Works consists of the Edgar Thomson Plant, located in Braddock, Pennsylvania; the Irvin Plant, located in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania; the Fairless Plant, located in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania; and the Clairton Plant, located in Clairton, Pennsylvania. Mon Valley Works has annual raw steel production capability of 2.9 million tons. Facilities at the Edgar Thomson Plant include two blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit and a slab caster. Irvin Plant facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, a cold reduction mill, three annealing facilities, a temper mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. The Fairless Plant operates a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products from Mon Valley Works include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, as well as coke and coke by products produced at the Clairton Plant. The Clairton Plant is comprised of nine coke batteries. Almost all of the coke produced is consumed by U. S. Steel facilities or swapped with other domestic steel producers. Coke by products are sold to the chemicals and raw materials industries. Granite City Works, located in Granite City, Illinois, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.8 million tons. Granite Citys facilities include two coke batteries, two blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Granite City Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells coke by products. Principal products include hot rolled and coated sheets. Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) has constructed a coke plant to supply Granite City Works, which began operating in October 2009. We own and operate a newly constructed cogeneration facility that utilizes by products from the Gateway coke plant to generate heat and power. Lake Erie Works, located in Nanticoke, Ontario, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.6 million tons. Lake Erie Works facilities, which remains idled due to a work stoppage, include a coke battery, a blast furnace, two steelmaking vessels, a slab caster, a hot strip mill and three pickling lines. The pickling lines were acquired on August 29, 2008 and are included in Flat rolled results as of that date. Principal products include slabs and hot rolled sheets. Fairfield Works, located in Fairfield, Alabama, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.4 million tons. Fairfield Works facilities included in Flat rolled are a blast furnace, three steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, a slab caster, a rounds caster, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, two temper/skin pass mills, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, and steel rounds for Tubular. Hamilton Works, located in Hamilton, Ontario, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.3 million tons. Hamilton Works facilities include a coke battery, a blast furnace, three steelmaking vessels, a slab caster, a combination slab/bloom caster, a bar mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill and two hot dip galvanizing lines and a galvanizing/galvannealing line. Principal products include slabs and cold rolled and coated sheets. We have iron ore pellet operations located at Mt. Iron (Minntac) and Keewatin (Keetac), Minnesota with annual iron ore pellet production capability of 22.4 million tons. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, these operations produced 8.5 million, 21.3 million and 20.8 million net tons of iron ore pellets, respectively. On February 1, 2010, USSC sold its 44.6 percent interest in the Wabush Mines Joint Venture (Wabush) for approximately $58 million. Wabush owns and operates iron ore mining and pellet facilities in Newfoundland and Labrador and Quebec, Canada. 16 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has a 14.7 percent ownership interest in Hibbing Taconite Company (Hibbing), which is based in Hibbing, Minnesota. Hibbings rated annual production capability is 9.1 million tons of iron ore pellets, of which our share is about 1.3 million tons, reflecting our ownership interest. Our share of 2009, 2008 and 2007 production was 0.3 million, 1.4 million and 0.2 million tons, respectively. We have a 15 percent ownership interest in Tilden Mining Company (Tilden), which is based in Ishpeming, Michigan. Tildens rated annual production capability is 8.7 million tons of iron ore pellets, of which our share is about 1.3 million tons, reflecting our ownership interest. Our share of 2009 production was a minimal amount and our share of 2008 and 2007 production was 1.2 million and 0.1 million tons, respectively. U. S. Steel owns a Research and Technology Center located in Munhall, Pennsylvania where we carry out a wide range of applied research, development and technical support functions. U. S. Steel also owns an automotive technical center in Troy, Michigan. This facility brings automotive sales, service, distribution and logistics services, product technology and applications research into one location. Much of U. S. Steels work in developing new grades of steel to meet the demands of automakers for high strength, light weight and formable materials is carried out at this location. U. S. Steel participates in a number of additional joint ventures that are included in Flat rolled, most of which are conducted through subsidiaries or other separate legal entities. All of these joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method. The significant joint ventures and other investments are described below. For information regarding joint ventures and other investments, see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel and POSCO of South Korea participate in a 50 50 joint venture, USS POSCO Industries (USS POSCO), located in Pittsburg, California. The joint venture markets high quality sheet and tin mill products, principally in the western United States. USS POSCO produces cold rolled sheets, galvanized sheets, tin plate and tin free steel from hot bands principally provided by U. S. Steel and POSCO, which each provide about 50 percent of its requirements. USS POSCOs annual production capability is approximately 1.5 million tons. U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. of Japan participate in a 50 50 joint venture, PRO TEC Coating Company (PRO TEC). PRO TEC owns and operates two hot dip galvanizing lines in Leipsic, Ohio, which primarily serve the automotive industry. PRO TECs annual production capability is approximately 1.2 million tons. U. S. Steel supplies PRO TEC with all of its requirements of cold rolled sheets and markets all of its products. U. S. Steel and Severstal North America, Inc. participate in Double Eagle Steel Coating Company (DESCO), a 50 50 joint venture which operates an electrogalvanizing facility located in Dearborn, Michigan. The facility coats sheet steel with free zinc or zinc alloy coatings, primarily for use in the automotive industry. DESCO processes steel supplied by each partner and each partner markets the steel it has processed by DESCO. DESCOs annual production capability is approximately 870,000 tons. U. S. Steel and ArcelorMittal participate in the Double G Coatings Company, L.P. 50 50 joint venture (Double G), a hot dip galvanizing and Galvalume&reg; facility located near Jackson, Mississippi, which primarily serves the construction industry. Double G processes steel supplied by each partner and each partner markets the steel it has processed by Double G. Double Gs annual production capability is approximately 315,000 tons. U. S. Steel and Worthington Industries, Inc. (Worthington Industries) participate in Worthington Specialty Processing (Worthington), a joint venture with locations in Jackson, Canton and Taylor, Michigan in which U. S. Steel has a 49 percent interest. Worthington slits, cuts to length and presses blanks from steel coils to desired specifications. Worthingtons annual production capability is approximately 890,000 tons. USSC and ArcelorMittal Dofasco, Inc. participate in Baycoat Limited Partnership (Baycoat), a 50 50 joint venture located in Hamilton, Ontario. Baycoat applies a variety of paint finishes to flat rolled steel coils. Baycoats annual production capability is approximately 280,000 tons. D.C. Chrome Limited, a 50 50 joint venture between USSC and The Court Group of Companies Limited, operates a plant in Stony Creek, Ontario which textures and chromium plates work rolls for Hamilton Works and for other customers, and grinds and chromes steel shafts used in manlifts. 17 Table of Contents Chrome Deposit Corporation (CDC), a 50 50 joint venture between U. S. Steel and Court Holdings, reconditions finishing work rolls, which require grinding, chrome plating and or texturing. The rolls are used on rolling mills to provide superior finishes on steel sheets. CDC has seven locations across the United States, with all locations near major steel mills. Feralloy Processing Company (FPC), a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Feralloy Corporation, converts coiled hot strip mill plate into sheared and flattened plates for shipment to customers. U. S. Steel has a 49 percent interest. The plant, located in Portage, Indiana, has a temper mill linked to a cut to length leveling line. The line provides stress free, leveled product with a superior surface finish. FPC provides processing services to the joint venture partners and other steel consumers and service centers. FPCs annual production capability is approximately 275,000 tons. U. S. Steel, along with Feralloy Mexico, S.R.L. de C.V. and Mitsui & Co. (USA), Inc., participates in a joint venture, Acero Prime, S.R.L. de CV (Acero Prime). U. S. Steel has a 40 percent interest. Acero Prime operates in Mexico with facilities in San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, and a leased warehouse in Toluca. Acero Prime provides slitting, warehousing and logistical services. Acero Primes annual slitting capability is approximately 385,000 tons. USSE USSE consists of USSK and its subsidiaries and USSS. USSK operates an integrated facility in Koice, Slovakia, which has annual raw steel production capability of 5.0 million tons. This facility has two coke batteries, three blast furnaces, four steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, two dual strand casters, a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, three annealing facilities, a temper mill, a temper/double cold reduction mill, three hot dip galvanizing lines, two tin coating lines, three dynamo lines, a color coating line and two spiral welded pipe mills. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, tin mill products and spiral welded pipe. USSK also has facilities for manufacturing heating radiators and refractory ceramic materials. In addition, USSK has a research laboratory which in conjunction with our Research and Technology Center supports efforts in cokemaking, electrical steels, design and instrumentation, and ecology. USSS has an integrated plant in Smederevo, Serbia which has annual raw steel production capability of 2.4 million tons. Facilities at this plant include two blast furnaces, three steelmaking vessels, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, a cold reduction mill, two annealing facilities, a temper mill and a temper/double cold reduction mill. Other facilities include a tin mill in Sabac with one tin coating line, a limestone mine in Kucevo and a river port in Smederevo, all located in Serbia. Principal products include hot rolled and cold rolled sheets and tin mill products. Tubular Tubular manufactures seamless and welded oil country tubular goods (OCTG), standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing. Seamless products are produced on a mill located at Fairfield Works in Fairfield, Alabama, and on two mills located in Lorain, Ohio. The Fairfield mill has annual production capability of 750,000 tons and is supplied with steel rounds exclusively from Fairfield Works. The Fairfield mill has the capability to produce outer diameter (O.D.) sizes from 4.5 to 9.625 inches and has quench and temper, hydrotester, threading and coupling and inspection capabilities. The Lorain mills have combined annual production capability of 780,000 tons and use steel rounds supplied by Fairfield Works and external sources. Lorain #3 Mill has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 10.125 to 26 inches and has quench and temper, hydrotester, cutoff and inspection capabilities. Lorain #4 Mill has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 1.9 to 4.5 inches and has cut to length capabilities and uses Tubular Services in Houston for finishing. Texas Operations manufactures welded OCTG, standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing products. Texas Operations #1 Mill has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 7 to 16 inches. Texas Operations #2 Mill has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 1.088 to 7.15 inches. Both mills have quench and temper, hydrotester, 18 Table of Contents threading and coupling and inspection capabilities. Bellville Operations manufactures welded tubular products primarily for OCTG. Bellville Operations has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 2.375 to 4.5 inches and has limited hydrotester and cutoff capabilities. Texas Operations and Bellville Operations have combined annual production capability of 1.0 million tons and use hot rolled products from Flat rolleds facilities. Welded products are also produced on a mill located in McKeesport, Pennsylvania, which is operated by a third party operator. The McKeesport mill has annual production capability of 315,000 tons and processes hot rolled bands from Mon Valley Works and other U. S. Steel locations. This mill has the capability to produce, hydrotest, cut to length and inspect O.D. sizes from 8.625 to 20 inches. Wheeling Machine Products supplies couplings used to connect individual sections of oilfield casing and tubing. It produces sizes ranging from 2.375 to 20 inches at three locations: Pine Bluff, Arkansas, Hughes Springs, Texas and Houston, Texas. Tubular Processing Services, located in Houston, Texas, provides thermal treating and end finishing services for oilfield production tubing. Tubular Threading and Inspection Services, also located in Houston, Texas, provides threading, inspection and storage services to the OCTG market. Fintube Technologies (Fintube), located in Tulsa, Oklahoma and Monterey, Mexico, manufactures specialty tubular products used in heat recovery technology applications. Fintube has a welded tube production mill, finning operations and an engineered products division. U. S. Steel also has a 50 percent ownership interest in Apolo Tubulars S.A. (Apolo), a Brazilian supplier of welded casing, tubing, line pipe and other tubular products. Apolos annual production capability is approximately 150,000 tons. In April 2007, U. S. Steel, POSCO and SeAH Steel Corporation, a Korean manufacturer of tubular products, formed United Spiral Pipe LLC to design, engineer and construct a manufacturing facility with annual production capability of 300,000 tons of spiral welded tubular products. U. S. Steel and POSCO each hold a 35 percent ownership interest in the joint venture, with the remaining 30 percent ownership interest being held by SeAH. The facility was commissioned in late 2009 and began operations in early 2010. Other Businesses U. S. Steels Other Businesses include transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations and engineering consulting services. On January 31, 2009, we completed the sale of a majority of the operating assets of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E) to a subsidiary of Canadian National Railway Company. Proceeds from the sale were approximately $300 million and U. S. Steel recorded a net gain of approximately $97 million, net of a $10 million pension curtailment loss, in the first quarter of 2009. The retained portion of EJ&E has been renamed Gary Railway Company. See Note 6 to the Financial Statements. In addition to Gary Railway Company in Indiana, U. S. Steel owns Lake Terminal Railroad Company in Ohio; Union Railroad Company and McKeesport Connecting Railroad Company in Pennsylvania; Birmingham Southern Railroad Company, Fairfield Southern Company, Inc., Mobile River Terminal Company, and Warrior and Gulf Navigation Company, all located in Alabama; Delray Connecting Railroad Company in Michigan and Texas & Northern Railroad Company in Texas; all of which comprise U. S. Steels transportation business. U. S. Steel owns, develops and manages various real estate assets, which include approximately 200,000 acres of surface rights primarily in Alabama, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota and Pennsylvania. In addition, U. S. Steel participates in joint ventures that are developing real estate projects in Alabama, Maryland and Illinois. U. S. Steel also owns approximately 4,000 acres of land in Ontario, Canada, which could potentially be sold or developed. U. S. Steel has a 38 percent ownership interest in Leeds Retail Center, LLC, an entity established for the development of a 495,000 square foot retail outlet mall in Leeds, Alabama. 19 Table of Contents Met Chem Canada Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of U. S. Steel, is a company providing engineering consulting services in the mining and mineral processing sectors. Raw Materials and Energy As an integrated producer, U. S. Steels primary raw materials are iron units in the form of iron ore pellets and sinter ore, carbon units in the form of coal and coke (which is produced from coking coal) and steel scrap. U. S. Steels raw materials supply strategy consists of acquiring and expanding captive sources of these primary raw materials and entering into long term supply contracts. The amounts of such raw materials needed to produce a ton of steel will fluctuate based upon the specifications of the final steel products, the quality of raw materials and, to a lesser extent, differences among steel producing equipment. In broad terms, U. S. Steel estimates that it consumes about 1.4 tons of coal to produce one ton of coke and that it consumes approximately 0.4 tons of coke, 0.2 tons of steel scrap (40 percent of which is internally generated) and 1.3 tons of iron ore pellets to produce one ton of raw steel. At normal operating levels, we also consume approximately 5 mmbtus of natural gas per ton shipped. While we believe that these estimates are useful for planning purposes, substantial variations occur. They are presented in order to give a general sense of raw material and energy consumption related to steel production. Iron Ore The iron ore facilities at Minntac and Keetac contain an estimated 752 million short tons of recoverable reserves and our share of recoverable reserves at the Hibbing and Tilden joint ventures is 65 million short tons. Recoverable reserves are defined as the tons of product that can be used internally or delivered to a customer after considering mining and beneficiation or preparation losses. Minntac and Keetacs annual capability and our share of annual capability for the Hibbing and Tilden joint ventures total 25 million tons. With these facilities and amounts under long term supply contracts, the Flat rolled segment currently has the capability to supply all of its annual iron ore requirements at normal operating levels. USSE purchases substantially all of its iron ore requirements from outside sources, but has also received iron ore from U. S. Steels iron ore facilities in North America. We believe that supplies of iron ore adequate to meet USSEs needs are available at competitive market prices. The main sources of iron ore for USSE are Russia and Ukraine, with some coming from Brazil. Coking Coal All of U. S. Steels coal requirements for our cokemaking facilities are purchased from outside sources. U. S. Steel has entered into multi year contracts for substantially all of Flat rolleds coking coal requirements. Prices for these North American contracts for 2010 are set at what we believe are competitive market prices. Prices in the out years will be negotiated within set collars around a base price or on an annual basis at prevailing market prices. In Europe, U. S. Steel has entered into contracts for most of USSEs coking coal requirements for 2010. Prices for these European contracts are negotiated at defined intervals (no less than quarterly) with regional suppliers. We believe that supplies of coking coal adequate to meet our needs are available from outside sources at competitive market prices. The main sources of coking coal for Flat rolled are the United States and Canada; and for USSE include Poland, the Czech Republic, the United States, Canada, Russia and Ukraine. 20 Table of Contents Coke In North America, the Flat rolled segment operates cokemaking facilities at the Clairton Plant of Mon Valley Works, Gary Works, Granite City Works, Hamilton Works and Lake Erie Works. In Europe, the USSE segment operates cokemaking facilities at USSK. Blast furnace injection of coal, natural gas and self generated coke oven gas is also used at certain Flat rolled and USSE facilities to reduce coke usage. The increase in coke production in 2008 was mainly due to the inclusion of production at Lake Erie Works and Hamilton Works for the entire year following the USSC acquisition in 2007. The decrease in coke production in 2009 resulted from the temporary idling of cokemaking facilities at the Clairton Plant, Granite City Works, Hamilton Works and Lake Erie Works for part of the year as well as the shut down of three coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. Production had been decreasing over the last several years due mainly to the shut down of one of the coke batteries at Gary Works in 2005. Over the next five years, as some of our North American coke batteries approach the end of their expected useful lives, our production capability is likely to decrease absent additional investment in coke or coke substitute production facilities. We have taken a number of steps to ensure long term access to high quality coke for our blast furnaces. We continue to evaluate plans for new coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. We entered into a 15 year coke supply agreement with Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) in connection with its newly constructed 651,000 ton per year heat recovery coke plant which began operating in the fourth quarter of 2009 and is located at Granite City Works. Also, we continue to evaluate plans to construct one or more facilities utilizing state of the art technology to produce a carbon alloy material that would be used as a coke substitute. With Flat rolleds cokemaking facilities and the Gateway long term supply agreement, it currently has the capability to supply approximately 80 percent of its annual coke requirements at normal operating levels. Depending on production levels, we may purchase additional coke on the open market. To the extent that it is necessary or appropriate considering existing needs and or applicable transportation costs, coke is purchased from or swapped with suppliers or other end users. USSEs cokemaking facilities currently have the capability to supply approximately 60% of its annual coke requirements at normal operating levels. The remainder of USSEs needs is purchased from outside sources. The main sources of coke for USSE in 2010 are expected to be Poland, Ukraine, Russia, Bosnia, Hungary and the Czech Republic. Limestone All of Flat rolleds limestone requirements are purchased from outside sources. We believe that supplies of limestone adequate to meet Flat rolleds needs are readily available from outside sources at competitive market prices. The majority of USSEs limestone requirements are purchased from outside sources with a portion of USSSs raw limestone requirements coming from a limestone mine under our direct control. We believe that supplies of limestone adequate to meet USSEs needs are available from outside sources at competitive market prices. Zinc and Tin We believe that supplies of zinc and tin required to fulfill the requirements for Flat rolled and USSE are available from outside sources at competitive market prices. We routinely execute fixed price forward physical purchase contracts for a portion of our expected business needs in order to manage our exposure to the volatility of the zinc and tin markets. 21 Table of Contents Steel Scrap and Other Materials We believe that supplies of steel scrap and other alloying and coating materials required to fulfill the requirements for Flat rolled and USSE are available from outside sources at competitive market prices. Generally, approximately 40 percent of our steel scrap requirements is internally generated through normal operations. Natural Gas All of U. S. Steels natural gas requirements are purchased from outside sources. We believe that supplies adequate to meet Flat rolleds needs are available at competitive market prices. In order to partially manage our exposure to natural gas price increases as it relates to customers with fixed priced contracts as well as electricity costs from a generating facility located at one of our facilities, we routinely execute fixed price forward physical purchase contracts for natural gas. About 60 percent of our natural gas purchases in Flat rolled are based on bids solicited on a monthly basis from various vendors; the remainder is made daily or with fixed price forward physical purchase contracts. We believe that supplies adequate to meet USSEs needs are normally available at competitive market prices. However, both USSK and USSS experienced a supply curtailment of more than ten days in January 2009 related to Russias suspension of natural gas shipments to Europe. The supply from Russia and the transmission through Ukraine and the associated political tension may impact supply availability. Both Flat rolled and USSE use self generated coke oven and blast furnace gas to reduce consumption of natural gas. Industrial Gases U. S. Steel purchases its industrial gas requirements under long term contracts with various suppliers. Commercial Sales of Product U. S. Steel characterizes our sales as contract if sold pursuant to an agreement with defined volume and pricing and a duration of longer than three months, and as spot if sold without a defined volume and pricing agreement. In 2009 approximately 60 percent, 30 percent and 10 percent of sales by Flat rolled, USSE and Tubular, respectively, were contract sales. Some contract pricing agreements include fixed price while others are adjusted periodically based upon published prices of steel products or cost components. U. S. Steel does not consider sales backlog to be a meaningful measure since volume commitments in most contracts are based on each customers specific periodic requirements. Environmental Matters U. S. Steel maintains a comprehensive environmental policy overseen by the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of the U. S. Steel Board of Directors. The Environmental Affairs organization has the responsibility to ensure that U. S. Steels operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that are in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The Executive Environmental Committee, which is comprised of officers of U. S. Steel, is charged with reviewing our overall performance with various environmental compliance programs. Also, U. S. Steel, largely through the American Iron and Steel Institute, the Canadian Steel Producers Association, the World Steel Association and European Confederation of Iron and Steel Industries (Eurofer), is involved in the promotion of cost effective environmental strategies through the development of appropriate air, water, waste and climate change laws and regulations at the local, state, national and international levels. U. S. Steels businesses in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act (CAA) with respect to air emissions; the Clean Water Act (CWA) with respect to water discharges; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and 22 Table of Contents disposal; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances. In addition, all states where U. S. Steel operates have similar laws dealing with the same matters. These laws are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable due in part to the fact that certain implementing regulations for these environmental laws have not yet been promulgated and in certain instances are undergoing revision. These environmental laws and regulations, particularly the CAA, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. USSC is subject to the environmental laws of Canada, which are comparable to environmental standards in the United States. Environmental regulation in Canada is an area of shared responsibility between the federal government and the provincial governments, which in turn delegate certain matters to municipal governments. Federal environmental statutes include the federal Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 and the Fisheries Act. Various provincial statutes regulate environmental matters such as the release and remediation of hazardous substances; waste storage, treatment and disposal; and air emissions. As in the United States, Canadian environmental laws (federal, provincial and local) are undergoing revisions and becoming more stringent. USSK is subject to the environmental laws of Slovakia and the EU. A related law of the EU commonly known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, Regulation 1907/2006) requires the registration of certain substances that are produced in the EU or imported into the EU. USSK pre registered various substances during the six month pre registration period that ended November 30, 2008, both on its own behalf and on behalf of U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries that may be shipping products into the EU. USSK is compliant with REACH and intends to register its substances by the applicable deadlines to remain in compliance and be able to continue its businesses without material change. USSS is subject to the environmental laws of Serbia. Under the terms of the acquisition in 2003, USSS is responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study in June 2004, which was submitted to the Government of Serbia. During 2008 and 2009, USSS spent approximately $50 million to reduce air particulate emissions and undertake other environmental projects pursuant to an agreement with the Serbian government. Many nations, including all where we operate, have or are considering the regulation of CO2 emissions. International negotiations to supplement or replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol are ongoing. Regulation of CO2 emissions is relevant to the steel industry and U. S. Steel. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The European Union has established greenhouse gas regulations. Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions as discussed below. In the United States, the House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act (also known as the Waxman Markey Bill) on June 26, 2009. Similar legislation is under consideration by the Senate in the form of a bill proposed by Senators Boxer and Kerry on September 30, 2009. These bills would establish a national cap and trade program (to be phased in beginning in 2012) that would require entities emitting greenhouse gases (or in some instances the producers of fuels that would result in such emissions) to present allowances that account for each ton of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emitted, subject to yearly national caps on overall emissions from covered sources. The bills include provisions that would grant limited relief, including the allocation of free allowances, for qualifying energy intensive and trade sensitive industries, for which iron and steel producers should qualify. It is uncertain when the Senate will act on these matters. If this or similar legislation is adopted, it could have far ranging economic and operational consequences for U. S. Steel. It is impossible to estimate the timing of final legislation or its impact on U. S. Steel, although it could be significant. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. The EPA has classified CO2 as a harmful gas. The EPA has implemented a new greenhouse gas emission inventory and reporting requirement for all facilities emitting 25,000 metric tons or more per year of CO2e greenhouse gases. The regulation requires facilities to collect information on CO2e and report emissions to the EPA starting in January of 2011, covering the 2010 calendar year. It is expected that most U. S. Steel facilities will be required to comply with the new reporting requirements. Since it was first proposed by the EPA, U. S. Steel has been undertaking preparations for meeting this requirement, and is evaluating the cost of compliance. 23 Table of Contents The EPA has also proposed new permitting requirements for facilities emitting 25,000 metric tons or more per year of CO2 based on requirements of the CAA. This proposal will be subject to public comment before being finalized. The EPA expects to have the new regulation in place by the first quarter of 2010. Evaluating the cost of compliance with this proposed regulation is not possible until the EPA has addressed all public comments. To comply with the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC) has created an Emissions Trading System (ETS). Under the ETS, the EC establishes CO2 emissions limits for every EU member state and approves grants of CO2 emission allowances to individual emitting facilities pursuant to national allocation plans that are proposed by each of the member states. The allowances can be bought and sold by emitting facilities to cover the quantities of CO2 they emit in their operations. In July 2008, following approval by the EC of Slovakias national allocation plan for the 2008 2012 trading period (NAP II), Slovakia granted USSK more CO2 allowances per year than USSK received for the 2005 to 2007 trading period. Based on actual carbon emissions to date, we believe that USSK will have sufficient allowances for the NAP II period without purchasing additional allowances. During 2009, USSK entered into transactions to sell and swap a portion of our emissions allowances and recognized $36 million of gains related to these transactions. On April 26, 2007, Canadas federal government announced an Action Plan to Reduce Greenhouse Gases and Air Pollution (the Plan). The Plan would set mandatory reduction targets on all major greenhouse gas producing industries to achieve an absolute reduction of 150 megatonnes in greenhouse gas emissions from 2006 levels by 2020. On March 10, 2008, Canadas federal government published details of its Regulatory Framework for Industrial Greenhouse Gas Emissions (the Framework). The Plan and the Framework provide that facilities existing in 2004 will be required to cut their greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 18 percent below their 2006 baseline by 2010, with a further two percent reduction in each following year. The Framework provided that newer and future facilities would be subject to phased in two percent annual emissions intensity reduction obligations and clean fuel standards. Companies will be able to choose the most cost effective way to meet their targets from a range of options which include carbon trading, offsets and credit for early action (between 1992 and 2006). The Framework effectively exempts fixed process emissions of CO2, which could exclude certain iron and steel producing CO2 emissions from mandatory reductions. More recently, the federal government has indicated that it may reconsider its proposed intensity based approach in light of potential U.S. legislation which may impose emission caps and import duties on countries which do not have a comparable regime. On June 12, 2009, Canadas federal government released for comment two draft guides related to the establishment of an Offset System in Canada. These draft documents propose rules and provide guidance on the requirements and processes to create offset credits and the requirements and processes to verify the eligible greenhouse gas reductions achieved from an offset project. Canadas federal government has stated that, once in place, the Offset System will establish tradable credits and encourage cost effective domestic greenhouse gas reductions in areas that will not be covered by planned federal greenhouse gas regulations. In December 2007, the Ontario government announced its own Action Plan on Climate Change (the Ontario Action Plan). The Ontario Action Plan targets reductions in Ontario greenhouse gas emissions of six percent below 1990 levels by 2014, 15 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 and 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. In December 2008, Ontario launched a consultation process towards the development of a cap and trade system to be implemented as early as 2010. In May 2009, Ontario released proposed amendments to the Environmental Protection Act that would provide, if passed, the regulatory authority to set up a greenhouse gas cap and trade system. At the same time, the Ontario government also released a discussion paper, Moving Forward: A Greenhouse Gas Cap and Trade System for Ontario which (i) helps clarify the cap and trade approach being considered in Ontario and the different options for elements of the approach and (ii) seeks stakeholder input on various elements of the proposed cap and trade system. Comments were accepted until July 26, 2009. The Ontario government released a draft Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting regulation for public comment on October 7, 2009. The reporting regulation is intended to provide the foundation for Ontario to implement a cap and trade program for greenhouse gases. The Ontario government has indicated that it plans to develop a cap and trade system that aligns with other systems developing in North America, including in the United States. U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations which in recent years have been mainly for process changes in order to meet CAA obligations and similar obligations in Europe and Canada. In the future, additional 24 Table of Contents expenditures will be required to comply with CO2 emission requirements. Since it is difficult to predict what requirements will ultimately be imposed in the United States and Canada, it is difficult to estimate the likely impact on U. S. Steel but it could be substantial. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that our major North American and many European integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills, some foreign steel producers (particularly in developing economies such as China) and producers of materials which compete with steel, all of which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In particular, if the final requirements do not recognize the fact that the integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions, our competitive position relative to mini mills will be adversely impacted and our competitive position regarding producers in developing nations, such as China and India, will be harmed unless such nations require comensurate reductions in CO2 emissions. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to our prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Many of our competitors have fewer historical liabilities. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Air The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a federally mandated operating permit program and civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. The CAA requires, among other things, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants through the development and promulgation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) Standards. The EPA has developed various industry specific MACT standards pursuant to this requirement. The CAA requires EPA to promulgate regulations establishing emission standards for each category of Hazardous Air Pollutants. EPA must also conduct risk assessments on each source category that is already subject to MACT standards and determine if additional standards are needed to reduce residual risks. The principal impact of the MACT standards on U. S. Steel operations includes those that are specific to cokemaking, ironmaking, steelmaking and iron ore processing. The emission limitations for ironmaking and steelmaking sources could become more stringent if EPAs residual risk analysis indicates that additional controls are necessary. EPA is required to complete this residual risk analysis by 2011. The impact of this risk analysis and any subsequent changes cannot be estimated at this time. U. S. Steels cokemaking facilities are subject to two categories of MACT standards. The first category applies to pushing and quenching. EPA is required to make a risk based determination for pushing and quenching emissions and determine whether additional emissions reductions are necessary from this process by 2011. EPA has yet to publish or propose any residual risk standards from these operations; therefore, the impact cannot be estimated at this time. The second category of MACT standards applying to coke facilities applies to emissions from charging, coke oven battery tops and coke oven doors. With regard to these standards, U. S. Steel chose to install more stringent controls than MACT on some of its batteries, called Lowest Achievable Emissions Reductions (LAER). Such LAER batteries are not required to comply with certain residual risk standards until 2020. Because the scope of these anticipated changes are distant and relatively uncertain, the magnitude of the impact of these anticipated changes cannot be estimated at this time. U. S. Steels iron ore processing operations are subject to the Taconite Iron Ore Processing MACT standards. These standards may change if EPA revises the MACT standards in response to a petition filed by an environmental advocacy group. In addition, EPA will make a risk based determination for taconite iron ore processing and determine whether additional emissions reductions are necessary from this process by 2011. EPA has yet to publish or propose any residual risk standards from these operations; therefore, the impact of any changes cannot be estimated at this time. 25 Table of Contents The CAA also requires the EPA to develop and implement National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for criteria pollutants, which include, among others, particulate matter and ozone. In 1997, EPA established 24 hour and annual standards for fine particles that are less than 2.5 micrometers in size and in 2006, EPA tightened the 24 hour standard but retained the annual standard. These standards were challenged and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, in American Farm Bureau Federation and National Pork Producers Council et al. v. EPA, 559 F. 3rd 512 (D.C. Cir. 2009), remanded the annual standards to the EPA for further consideration but allowed the 2006 24 hour standard to remain in effect. States are still required to demonstrate compliance with the 1997 fine particle standard by April 2010, with a possible extension to April 2015, but the annual standard could change based upon the remand noted above. If the standard is changed, states will be required to modify their state implementation plans (SIPs) to meet the new standard. On December 22, 2008, EPA designated areas in which U. S. Steel operates as nonattainment and unclassified/attainment for the 2006 fine particle standard. SIPs for the 2006 24 hour standard are due December 14, 2012, with attainment demonstrations with the 2006 standard expected to be made by 2014 or 2019, with extensions. It is anticipated that EPAs fine particle programs could result in significant costs to U. S. Steel. While the SIPs for the 1997 (current) annual standard were due in April 2008, many states and local agencies in which U. S. Steel facilities are located have not yet or are just now proposing SIPs. U. S. Steel is currently reviewing these drafts and proposed SIPs, but the impacts of the anticipated regulations cannot be determined at this time. Furthermore, it is impossible to estimate the magnitude of any costs associated with the SIPs for the 2006 24 hour standard or the remand of the annual standard since the state and federal agencies are still developing regulations for the programs and implementation for the 2006 24 hour standard. Demonstrating attainment with the 2006 24 hour standard is not expected until sometime between 2014 and 2019 and no new standard or associated timeline has been established for the annual standard. Effective May 2008, EPA lowered its ground level ozone air quality standards, which could affect sources of nitrogen oxide and volatile organic compounds, including coke plants, and iron and steel facilities. EPA is required to issue final designations of attainment, nonattainment and unclassifiable areas no later than March 2010 unless there is insufficient information to make these designation decisions. In that case, EPA will issue designations no later than March 2011. States must submit SIPs outlining how they will reduce pollution to meet the standards by a date that is no later than three years after EPAs final designations. If EPA issues designations in 2010 or 2011, these plans would be due no later than 2013 or 2014, respectively. States are required to meet the standards by deadlines that may vary based on the severity of the problem in the area. It is anticipated that the ozone NAAQS revisions could result in significant costs to U. S. Steel; however, it is impossible to estimate the magnitude of these costs at this time since the implementation dates are unknown and distant. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts our operations to be in compliance with such permits. For additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste 26 Table of Contents disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the former Duluth Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred and it is possible that additional sites will be identified that require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had approximately 24,000 employees in North America and approximately 19,000 in Europe. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) that expire in September 2012. The 2008 CBAs resulted in wage increases ranging from $0.65 to $1.00 per hour as of the effective date. Each subsequent September 1 thereafter during the contract term, employees will receive a four percent wage increase. The 2008 CBAs also require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance during the contract period. In early 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the 2009 contribution until 2012. The 2008 CBAs also provide for pension and other benefit enhancements for both current employees and retirees (see Notes 17 and 20 to the Financial Statements). A small number of workers at these facilities, as well as workers at our transportation operations are covered by agreements with the USW or other unions that have varying expiration dates. At USSC the collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Lake Erie Works has expired and a successor agreement has not been reached. The collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Hamilton Works expires in July 2010. All of the agreements in North America contain no strike clauses. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in March 2012. Represented employees at USSS are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in December 2012. Wage increases have been agreed to for all years for both USSE agreements. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. We post our annual report on Form 10 K, our quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, our proxy statement and our interactive data files to our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also post all press releases and earnings releases to our web site. 27 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles, our Code of Ethical Business Conduct and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation & Organization Committee and the Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 2998). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site or the documents referred to in the immediately preceeding paragraph into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income from operations by reportable segment and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 3 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary (Unaudited) on pages F 63 and F 64. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Current Global Recession All segments of our business have been impacted by the global recession and such impacts have created certain new risks and have also affected the other risks set forth below. U. S. Steel and its end product markets continue to be impacted by the global recession. For full year 2009, U. S. Steel reported a net loss of $1,401 million, or $10.42 per diluted share. Raw steel production in our North American Flat rolled segment averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 79 percent and 83 percent of cabability in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and our European USSE segment averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 86 percent and 92 percent of capability in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our Tubular segment shipped 657 thousand tons in 2009 as compared to 1.95 million tons in 2008. Despite some signs of economic recovery, we expect to report an overall operating loss for the first quarter of 2010. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which experienced substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels and this has led to a substantial decrease in oil and gas drilling activity, which has resulted in lower customer demand for the products of our Tubular segment. U. S. Steels operating levels will remain at depressed levels until our customers demand increases. In addition to reduced demand in our end product markets, we believe that some of our customers are experiencing difficulty in obtaining credit or maintaining their ability to qualify for trade credit insurance, resulting in a further reduction in purchases and an increase in our credit risk exposure. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. In addition, the expiration of governmental stimulus programs may have a negative impact on the levels of customer demand. In response to the global recession, we announced that we had substantially reduced our planned capital expenditures for 2009 to conserve liquidity. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long 28 Table of Contents term strategic importance, as we focused on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Unless the current economic situation continues to improve, we may have to delay investments of long term strategic importance. It could also become more expensive to complete these deferred investments at a later date. Moreover, delaying these long term strategic investments could have a negative impact on our cost structure and market position. U. S. Steel is incurring and will continue to incur facility carrying costs when production capacity is temporarily idled and increased costs as we resume production at idled facilities. During 2009, U. S. Steel temporarily idled significant production facilities in all three of our segments in response to economic conditions and customer demand. We continue to incur certain facility carrying costs which could not be eliminated even though the facilities were idled, resulting in higher unit production costs for all three segments. For example, during 2009 in our North American Flat rolled and Tubular segments, we incurred approximately $735 million and $80 million of idled facility costs, respectively. Furthermore, we transferred raw materials to operating locations, and delayed discretionary repair and maintenance and other expenditures while facilities were temporarily idled to minimize costs and preserve liquidity during the idling period. As we restart facilities, we are incurring increased costs to replenish raw material inventories, prepare the previously idled facilities for operation, perform the required repair and maintenance, complete capital projects and prepare employees to safely return to work and resume production responsibilities. U. S. Steel may need to substantially increase working capital when market conditions and order levels improve. As our business deteriorated, we reduced working capital by $1.3 billion in 2009. When market conditions and order levels improve we may have to increase our working capital substantially, as it will take several months for new orders to be translated into cash receipts. In general, availability under our 2007 five year $750 million revolving credit facility, which was amended and restated in 2009, (Amended Credit Agreement) is limited to a monthly borrowing base of certain eligible domestic inventory and availability under our Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) is limited to eligible receivables. We may not have sufficient eligible inventory and receivables to borrow the amounts we need. U. S. Steel may face increased risks of customer and supplier defaults. There is an increased risk of insolvency and other credit related issues of our customers and suppliers, including their need to increase working capital as their businesses improve. We believe some of our customers and suppliers may not have sufficient credit available to them, which could delay payments from customers, result in increased customer defaults and cause our suppliers to delay filling, or to be unable to fill, our needs. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity investees are also being affected by the current global recession. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity affiliates are also engaged in the production of steelmaking raw materials and finishing of flat rolled and tubular products. As such they face many of the same issues we do. Since these entities are smaller than U. S. Steel, they may have fewer resources available to them to respond to the current global recession. Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is highly cyclical, and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow, especially during periods of economic weakness. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in regional markets. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess global supply, which has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. 29 Table of Contents Rapidly growing supply in China and other developing economies may grow faster than real demand in those economies, which may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years, steel consumption in China and other developing economies has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by rapidly increasing steel production capability in those countries and published reports state that further capacity increases are likely. Steel production, especially in China, has expanded rapidly and appears to be well in excess of Chinas home market demand. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any excess Chinese supply could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if this excess and subsidized production is exported to other markets. Since the Chinese steel industry is largely government owned, it has not been as adversely impacted by the current global recession, and it can make production and sales decisions for non market reasons. Increased imports of steel products into North America and Europe could negatively affect steel prices and demand levels and reduce our profitability. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 22 percent of the domestic steel market in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 22 percent in 2007. Foreign competitors may have lower labor costs, and some are owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Imports of tubular products to the United States increased significantly beginning in 2008. Oil country tubular goods (OCTG) imports accounted for a large share of the growth, as they have more than doubled over 2007 levels. Imports of OCTG from China registered the most dramatic increase as they grew from 900 thousand tons in 2007 to nearly 2.3 million tons in 2008. The U.S. market experienced a surge in tubular imports in the second half of 2008 that resulted in record OCTG inventories by the end of the year, which affected demand in 2009 and is continuing to affect demand in 2010. Chinese imports of seamless standard line and pressure pipe increased by more than 290 percent in the three months after the filing of antidumping and counterveiling duty petitions in September 2009, as compared to the three months prior to the filing. Imports of flat rolled steel to Canada accounted for an estimated 35 percent of the Canadian market for flat rolled steel products in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 27 percent in 2007. Total imports of flat rolled carbon steel products to the EU27 (the 27 countries currently comprising the European Union (EU)) were 15 percent of the EU market in 2009, 19 percent in 2008 and 17 percent in 2007. Increases in future levels of imported steel to North America and Europe could reduce future market prices and demand levels for steel products produced in those markets. Imports into the United States, Canada and the EU have often violated the international trade laws of these jurisdictions. While in some cases U. S. Steel and others have been successful in obtaining relief under these laws, in other circumstances relief has not been received. When received, such relief is generally subject to automatic or discretionary recision or reduction. There can be no assurance that any such relief will be obtained or continued in the future or that such relief as obtained will be adequate. Limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in obtaining sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner due to delays or defaults by suppliers, shortages or transportation problems (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or disruption of rail lines, waterways or natural gas transmission lines), resulting in production curtailments. We do not produce enough coke to meet our global requirements and our coke production capability is likely to decline over the next several years given that some of our existing coke batteries in the United States are approaching the end of their useful lives. As a result, we may be further exposed to risks concerning pricing and availability of coke from third parties. USSE is dependent upon availability of natural gas produced in Russia and transported through Ukraine. USSE experienced natural gas supply curtailments during Russias suspension of natural gas shipments to Europe in January 2009. Resulting steel production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins, and any future curtailments and escalated costs may reduce profit margins. 30 Table of Contents Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Steel producers in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the EU, Canada and Japan are generally comparable to U.S. standards, other nations, particularly China, have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Greenhouse gas policies could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create carbon dioxide (CO2). This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States has passed a bill in the House of Representatives and a bill has been introduced in the Senate. For a discussion of these, see PART I Business Environmental Matters. We cannot predict the final requirements that may be adopted in the United States and Canada, or the form of future actions that may be taken by the EU; however, such limitations could entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources, which could have a negative effect on results of operations and cash flows. Since mini mill production does not involve the same chemical reactions as integrated production, mini mills may have a competitive advantage. Also, since China and many other developing nations have not instituted greenhouse gas regulations, and since past international agreements such as the Kyoto Protocol provided exemptions and lesser standards for developing nations, we may also be at a competitive disadvantage with certain foreign steel producers. Many of our customers in the United States, Canada and Europe may experience similar impacts, which could result in decreased demand for our products. Risk Factors Concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Our retiree health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, and our pension plan costs in North America are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans covering most of our North American employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 129,000 current employees, retirees and beneficiaries are participating in the plans to receive pension and or medical benefits. At December 31, 2009, on an accounting basis, U. S. Steels retiree medical and life insurance plans were underfunded $2.9 billion and our pension plans were underfunded by $1.7 billion. Most of our employee benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Minimum contributions to domestic qualified pension plans are controlled under ERISA and other government regulations. Minimum contributions to U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) pension plans are governed by an agreement entered into by Stelco Inc. (Stelco) and the Province of Ontario that U. S. Steel assumed in conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco. This agreement requires defined annual contributions until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. Substantial cash contributions may be required to fund these benefit plans. U. S. Steel contributes to a multiemployer plan in the United States covering pensions for USW represented workers formerly employed by National Steel and workers hired after May 2003. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of this plan, which may have a negative effect on our cash flows. The collective 31 Table of Contents bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) increased our required contributions to this plan from $1.80 to $2.65 per hour. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of this plan. Total costs for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $420 million in 2010, a decrease of $40 million from 2009, while cash contributions for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $570 million in 2010, exclusive of any voluntary contributions we might choose to make. The turmoil in financial markets during 2008 has led to significant declines in the value of equity investments that are held by the trusts under our pension plans and the trust to pay for retiree health care and life insurance benefits. While some of these losses were recovered in 2009, the 2008 losses have contributed to the underfunded position at December 31, 2009. We may be required or may choose to make substantial contributions to these plans. Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and pension plans, and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Benefit obligations under our plans are not tied to operating rates; therefore, our costs are not expected to decline as a result of the global recession or any other future economic downturns. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our results of operations and cash flows. U. S. Steel is involved in numerous remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to unrelated parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. For example, we recorded a charge of $49 million in 2009 in connection with the expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works bringing the total liability for this site to $66 million as of December 31, 2009. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Many U.S. competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Competitors that have obtained relief under bankruptcy laws may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors Applicable to U. S. Steel Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to equipment failures at our facilities or those of our key suppliers. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Production at USSE was curtailed in January 2009 due to the suspension of natural gas deliveries to Europe from Russia transported through Ukraine and we remain vulnerable to this risk. Availability of raw materials and delivery of products to customers could be affected by logistical disruptions (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or unavailability of rail lines or of locks on the Great Lakes or other bodies of water). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by volatility in prices for raw materials, energy, and steel. Approximately 60 percent of U. S. Steels Flat rolled segment sales in the United States are based on sales contracts with volume commitments and durations of at least one quarter, while lesser percentages of Tubular and USSE segment sales are made pursuant to such contacts. These contracts generally have a fixed price or a price 32 Table of Contents that will fluctuate with changes in a defined index and do not always have firm volume commitments. During periods of rapid escalation of raw materials, energy and other costs such as was experienced in 2008, U. S. Steel may not be able to recover these cost increases from customers with existing fixed price agreements. Conversely, some purchase contracts require annual commitments and in periods of rapid decline, such as 2009, U. S. Steel may be faced with having agreed to purchase raw materials and energy at prices that are above the then current market price or in greater volumes than required. If steel prices decline, our profit margins on market based indexed contracts and spot business will be reduced. Declines in the production levels of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which reported substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels, leading to a reduction in oil and gas exploration and development, which in turn has resulted in lower customer demand for our Tubular segment. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. The terms of our indebtedness contain provisions that may limit our flexibility. The Amended Credit Agreement is now secured by a lien on a majority of our domestic inventory and certain of our accounts receivable and includes a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant that applies when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than $112.5 million. Because the Amended Credit Agreement was undrawn throughout 2009, this covenant was not applicable, but based on the four quarters ended December 31, 2009, we would not have met this covenant. The value or levels of inventory may decrease or we may not be able to meet this covenant in the future, and either or both of these situations would limit our ability to borrow under the Amended Credit Agreement. We also amended our $500 million RPA, which among other things increased pricing, reserve factors and percentages; changed the definition of Eligible Receivables, which resulted in an increase in the amount of our receivables ineligible for purchase; and added a change of control provision. Reductions in accounts receivable would limit our ability to sell receivables. In general, availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is limited to a monthly borrowing base for certain eligible domestic inventory. Further inventory reductions could limit availability to less than the potential $750 million. If availability under the Amended Credit Agreement falls below the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million, we would also be subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. This may be a particular problem when market conditions and order levels improve and U. S. Steel needs the liquidity to rebuild working capital. We have granted the lenders under the Amended Credit Agreement a secured position in our most liquid assets, which may be a detriment to other creditors. The Amended Credit Agreement, our Senior Convertible Notes issued in 2009 and our $1.6 billion of Senior Notes issued in 2007 also contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks. Additionally, the repayment of amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and repurchase of the Senior Convertible Notes and Senior Notes is required upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. The Amended Credit Agreement, the Senior Convertible Notes and the RPA have provisions that certain defaults under a material debt obligation could cause a default under the Amended Credit Agreement or the Senior Convertible Notes or termination of the RPA. These terms may affect our liquidity, our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. All three major ratings agencies have downgraded the ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt in the last year. This has caused increases in borrowing costs under our credit facilities. We have been required to and may be forced to provide additional collateral or financial assurance for environmental closure and other presently unsecured obligations. These and any future downgrades in our credit ratings may make raising capital more difficult, may increase the cost and affect the terms of future borrowings, may affect the terms under which we purchase goods and services and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 33 Table of Contents Change in control clauses in our financial and labor agreements grant the other parties to those agreements rights to accelerate obligations and to terminate or extend our labor agreements. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, Amended Credit Agreement, Senior Convertible Notes and various other contracts and leases, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately repurchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. Additionally, the 2008 CBAs give the USW the right to either terminate or extend the collective bargaining agreements for an additional four years. A change of control is generally defined to include any of the following: (a) the acquisition by a person or group of at least 35 percent of our common stock, (b) a merger in which holders of our common stock own less than a majority of the equity in the resulting entity, or (c) replacement of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors by persons who were not nominated by our current directors. Our operations expose us to uncertainties and risks in the countries in which we operate, which could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our U.S. operations are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the United States, which if changed could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, increased regulation, limitations on exports of energy and raw materials, and trade remedies. Actions taken by the U.S. government could affect our results of operations and cash flow. For example, certain health care reform proposals could increase the cost of our health insurance plans for active employees and retirees and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. USSK, located in Slovakia, USSS, located in Serbia, and USSC, located in Canada, constitute 39 percent of our global raw steel production capability. All of them are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the countries in which they are located, and USSK is additionally subject to economic conditions and political factors associated with the EU and the euro currency. Changes in any of these economic conditions or political factors could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, government instability, civil unrest, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. Any future foreign acquisitions could expose us to similar risks. We are subject to significant foreign currency risks, which could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. Our foreign operations accounted for approximately 30 percent of our net sales in 2009. The financial condition and results of operations of USSK, USSS and USSC are reported in various foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. The appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. In addition, the acquisition of USSC was funded from the United States, as well as through the reinvestment of undistributed foreign earnings from USSE, creating intercompany monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities involved, which can have a non cash impact on income when they are remeasured at the end of each quarter. An $892 million U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary was the primary exposure at December 31, 2009. Any future foreign acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Our business requires substantial expenditures for debt service, obligations, capital investment, operating leases and maintenance that we may be unable to fund. With $3,364 million of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2009, we have significant debt service requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2009, total capital expenditures were $3.3 billion. At December 31, 2009, our contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $152 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $173 million under operating leases. 34 Table of Contents In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, steelmaking and steel finishing facilities. As of December 31, 2009, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $173 million, operating lease obligations of approximately $26 million that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, and unconditional purchase obligations, including take or pay arrangements, totalling approximately $11.5 billion. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient, to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. The limitations under our Amended Credit Agreement and RPA, described above, may limit our availability to draw upon these facilities. We intend indefinitely to reinvest undistributed foreign earnings outside the United States; however, if we need to repatriate funds in the future to satisfy our liquidity needs, the tax consequences would reduce income and cash flow. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. Our insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insured retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by the 2008 CBAs, which expire in September 2012. These agreements contain provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USW, grant the USW a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the 2008 CBAs, require us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities and require mandatory pre funding of a trust for retiree health care and life insurance. These agreements also restrict our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further require that the ratio of non USW employees to USW employees at our domestic facilities not exceed one to five. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USW, some foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. We are at risk of labor stoppages. The collective bargaining agreement covering the Lake Erie Works expired in July 2009 and there has been a work stoppage since that time. The collective bargaining agreement at the Hamilton Works expires in July 2010, and we may not enter into a successor agreement prior to that time. There are risks associated with past acquisitions, as well as any acquisitions we may make in the future. Our acquisitions of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) and Stelco created goodwill on our balance sheet which totaled $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, and which exposes us to the risk of future impairment charges. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007 and our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined based on consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or compound annual growth rate, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. The assumptions used will have a large impact on the conclusions reached in future tests. As of 35 Table of Contents December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively. The Lone Star acquisition increased our tubular production capacity by more than 50 percent and the Stelco acquisition increased our North American steelmaking capability by 25 percent, thereby increasing our exposure to cyclical downturns in historically cyclical industries such as oil and gas, service center, conversion, automotive, construction and appliance. The success of any future acquisitions will depend substantially on the accuracy of our analysis concerning such businesses and our ability to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, to finance such acquisitions and to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Our acquisitions in 2007 involved purchase prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our acquisitions in 2003. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations and countries. Antitrust and similar laws in foreign jurisdictions may prevent us from completing acquisitions. There are risks associated with existing and potential tax law and accounting requirements. In accordance with ASC Topic 740, we have not recognized a tax benefit for pre tax losses in jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance for accounting purposes. As a result, the pre tax losses associated with USSS and USSC do not provide any tax benefit for accounting purposes. Significant changes in the mix of pre tax results among the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material impact on our effective tax rate. President Obamas administration has proposed significant changes to U.S. tax law. Some of the proposed changes, such as the repeal of the last in first out (LIFO) inventory cost method, could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow if they are enacted. We may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow in a particular period. Our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. For information regarding our current significant legal proceedings, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. We may suffer employment losses, which could negatively affect our future performance. Approximately 570 of U. S. Steels North American based non represented employees retired in 2009 as part of a voluntary early retirement program and a significant number of those remaining are or will be eligible for retirement over the next several years. 36 Table of Contents Over the last few years we had intensified our recruitment, training and retention efforts so that we may continue to optimally staff our operations, but we instituted a freeze on hiring in early 2009 in response to the global economic recession. If we are unable to hire sufficient qualified replacements for those leaving, our future performance may be adversely impacted. With respect to our represented employees, we may be adversely impacted by the loss of employees who retired or obtained other employment during the time they were laid off or subject to a work stoppage such as currently exists at Lake Erie Works. The cost reduction actions taken in 2009 increased the number of personnel and organization changes and may increase the risk of internal control failures. We may experience difficulties implementing our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. We are currently implementing an ERP system to help us operate more efficiently. This is a complex project, which is expected to be implemented in several phases over the next several years. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP program without experiencing difficulties. In addition, the expected benefits of implementing the ERP system may not be realized or the costs of implementation may outweigh the realized benefits. We extended the implementation schedule in early 2009 to reduce near term costs. This action will delay the realization of benefits from this project and may add to final project costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following tables list U. S. Steels main properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Slabs; Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Plant Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Slabs; Sheets; Coke Lake Erie Works Nanticoke, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke Hamilton Works Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke; Bars Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Slabs; Rounds; Sheets; Seamless Tubular USS POSCO Industries(a) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin mill PRO TEC Coating Company(a) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(a) Dearborn, Michigan Galvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(a) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(a) Jackson, Canton and Taylor, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(a) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(a) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(a) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Baycoat Limited Partnership(a) Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Steel processing D.C. Chrome Limited(a) Stony Creek, Ontario, Canada Roll processing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Seamless Tubular Texas Operations Lone Star, Texas Welded Tubular Bellville Operations Bellville, Texas Welded Tubular Wheeling Machine Products Pine Bluff, Arkansas and Hughes Springs and Houston, Texas Tubular couplings Tubular Processing Services Houston, Texas Tubular processing Tubular Threading and Inspection Services Houston, Texas Tubular threading, inspection and storage services Fintube Technologies, Inc. Tulsa, Oklahoma and Monterrey, Mexico Specialty Welded Tubular United Spiral Pipe, LLC(a) Pittsburg, California Spiral Welded Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Hibbing Taconite Company(a) Hibbing, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Tilden Mining Company(a) Ishpeming, Michigan Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas Transportation services (railroad and barge operations) (a) Equity investee 38 Table of Contents Other Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Koice Koice, Slovakia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Tubular; Coke; Radiators;Refractories U. S. Steel Serbia Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Limestone Apolo Tubulars S.A.(a) Lorena, Sao Paulo, Brazil Welded Tubular (a) Equity investee U. S. Steel and its predecessors (including Lone Star) have owned their properties for many years with no material adverse claims asserted. In the case of Great Lakes Works, Granite City Works, the Midwest Plant and Keetac iron ore operations acquired from National Steel in 2003; the Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia operations acquired by U. S. Steel in 2003; and the Lake Erie Works and Hamilton Works of U. S. Steel Canada acquired in 2007; U. S. Steel or its subsidiaries are the beneficiaries of bankruptcy laws and orders providing that properties are held free and clear of past liabilities. In addition, U. S. Steel or its predecessors obtained title insurance, local counsel opinions or similar protections when the major properties were initially acquired. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease. The final lease payment is due in December 2012 and the lease term expires in June 2013, subject to additional extensions. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. At the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has a supply agreement for various utility services with a company which owns a cogeneration facility located on U. S. Steel property. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. General Litigation In March 2008, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed a previous decision of the Indiana Utilitites Regulatory Commission involving a rate escalation provision in U. S. Steels electric power supply contract with Northern Indiana Public Service Company and a reserve of $45 million related to prior year effects was established in the first quarter of 2008. In June 2009, the Indiana Supreme Court overruled the Court of Appeals, and we reversed the reserve related to this litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel is vigorously defending these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. 39 Table of Contents On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. Asbestos Litigation As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active cases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. At December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 450 active cases involving approximately 3,050 plaintiffs. During 2009, settlements and dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 200 claims and U. S. Steel paid approximately $7 million in settlements. New filings added approximately 190 claims. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. Most of the claims filed in 2009, 2008 and 2007 involve individual or small groups of claimants. Historically, these claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); (2) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel; and (3) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of former operations of U. S. Steel. In general, the only insurance available to U. S. Steel with respect to asbestos claims is excess casualty insurance, which has multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has received minimal payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 210 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or our products or premises; however, with the decline in mass plaintiff cases the incidence of claimants actually alleging a claim against U. S. Steel is increasing. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or our products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing our potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any 40 Table of Contents claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where we believe litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. The following table shows activity with respect to asbestos litigation: Year ended December 31, OpeningNumber ofClaims ClaimsDismissed,Settled andResolved New Claims Closing Numberof Claims Amounts Paid toResolve Claims(in millions) 2007 3,700 1,230 530 3,000 $ 9 2008 3,000 400 450 3,050 $ 13 2009 3,050 200 190 3,040 $ 7 The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. The vast majority of pending claims against us allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. In most cases, the claimant also was exposed to asbestos in non U. S. Steel settings; the relative periods of exposure between U. S. Steel and non U. S. Steel settings vary with each claimant; and the strength or weakness of the causal link between U. S. Steel exposure and any injury vary widely. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, although the resolution of such matters could significantly impact results of operations for a particular quarter. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has declined; (2) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (3) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2009, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the 41 Table of Contents ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of, environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 31 CERCLA sites where liability is not resolved. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs will be between $1 million and $5 million for 3 of these sites, will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site for 8 of these sites, and will be under $100,000 per site for 9 of these sites. At 2 other sites, management estimates U. S. Steels share in the future cleanup costs to be $32 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. One site is known as the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pennsylvania. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation, which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel has completed the remedial design for this site and it is being reviewed by PADEP. The other site is the former Duluth Works, which was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River Interlake Duluth Tar site on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel has prepared a conceptual habitat enhancement plan (HEP) that includes measures to address contaminated sediments in the St. Louis River Estuary. MPCA (on behalf of EPA) has completed its second five year review for the site. As a result, additional data collection will be required to address data gaps identified in the five year review and corrective measures will be required to address the recently discovered areas of contamination on the upland property. Study, investigation and oversight costs along with implementation of corrective measures on the upland property and implementation of the HEP are currently estimated at $26 million. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 45 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 12 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 18 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 8 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million per site. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $5 million per site at 4 sites and in excess of $10 million per site at 1 sites. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining three sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by the EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. As of December 31, 2009, project costs have amounted to $60 million. U. S. Steel completed additional dredging in 2007, and submitted a Dredge Completion Report to EPA in May 2008. Although further dredging is not expected, $1.0 million is accrued for possible additional work that 42 Table of Contents may be required to complete the project and obtain EPA approval. The Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) which received dredged materials from the Grand Calumet River could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to an Administrative Order on Consent (1998) for corrective action. CAMU maintenance and wastewater treatment costs are anticipated to be an additional $872,000 through December 2011. In 1998, U. S. Steel also entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel, following EPA approval of the Dredge Completion Report, will pay the public trustees $1.0 million for ecological monitoring costs. In addition, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $835,000. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects based on the estimated remaining costs was $3.7 million at December 31, 2009. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites: D5, along with an adjacent solid waste disposal unit, Terminal Treatment Plant (TTP) Area; T2; and D2 combined with a portion of the Refuse Area, where a solid waste disposal unit overlaps with the hazardous waste disposal unit. The sites are located on plant property. U. S. Steel has submitted a closure plan to the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) for D2 and the known tar areas of the Refuse Area. U. S. Steel has proposed that the remainder of the Refuse Area be addressed as a Solid Waste Management Unit (SWMU) under corrective action. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a revised closure plan for T2 and separate closure plans for D5 and the TTP Area. IDEM approved the closure plans for D5 and T2 on October 15, 2009 and December 1, 2009 respectively. Implementation of both plans is expected to begin in 2010. The related accrued liability for estimated costs to close each of the hazardous waste sites and perform groundwater monitoring prior to closure is $5.8 million for D5 and TTP, $3.1 million for T2 and $10.9 million for D2 including a portion of the Refuse Area, as of December 31, 2009. On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for SWMUs throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI), a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) and Corrective Measure Implementation at Gary Works. Reports of field investigation findings for Phase I work plans have been submitted to EPA. Four self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had spent approximately $31.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval for a perimeter groundwater monitoring plan and is developing a proposal for a corrective measure to address impacted sediments in the West Grand Calumet Lagoon. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a sampling and analysis plan for the Solid Waste Management Areas east of the Vessel Slip Turning Basin, and a portion of the sediments behind the East Breakwall. U. S. Steel has begun operation of a full scale groundwater treatment system approved by EPA as a Self Implementing Stabilization Measure to address benzene impacted groundwater east of the vessel slip, and continues to operate a seasonal groundwater treatment system near the coke plant. The costs for the above mentioned activities are estimated to be $15.1 million. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval to implement corrective measures necessary to address soil contamination at Gary Works. U. S. Steel estimates the minimum cost of the corrective measures for soil contamination to be approximately $3.5 million. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $6.1 million. Until the remaining Phase I work and Phase II field investigations are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary for Corrective Action projects at Gary Works. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects was $24.7 million as of December 31, 2009, based on the estimated remaining costs. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by IDEM, acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court and thereafter became effective April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel has paid our entire share of the assessment costs and the restoration costs to the public trustees. On November 26, 2007, IDEM issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) alleging three pushing violations and one door violation on the No. 2 Battery that were to have occurred on July 11, 2007. On December 20, 2007, IDEM made a verbal penalty demand of $123,000 to resolve these alleged violations. U. S. Steel provided written responses to the NOVs. Negotiations regarding these NOVs are ongoing. 43 Table of Contents On October 3, 2007, November 26, 2007, March 2, 2008 and March 18, 2008, IDEM issued NOVs alleging opacity limitation violations from the coke plant and Blast Furnaces Nos. 4 and 8. To date, no penalty demand has been made by IDEM regarding these NOVs. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating resolution of these NOVs with IDEM. On July 3, 2008, EPA Region V issued a Notice of Violation/Finding of Violation (NOV/FOV) alleging violations resulting from a multi media inspection conducted in May 2007 and subsequent information collection requests pursuant to Section 114 of the Clean Air Act. These alleged violations include those currently being prosecuted by IDEM that are identified above. Other alleged violations include the reline of No. 4 Blast Furnace in 1990 without a New Source Review/Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit, and opacity limit excursions from hot iron transfer cars, slag skimming, slag pits, and the blast furnace casting house. The NOV/FOV also alleges violations relating to hydrochloric acid pickling, blast furnace relief valves and blast furnace flares. While a penalty demand is expected, EPA Region V has not yet made such a demand. Since issuing the NOV/FOV, EPA Region V has issued additional Section 114 information requests to Gary Works. U. S. Steel has responded to the requests and is currently negotiating resolution of the NOV/FOV and other request issues with EPA Region V and IDEM. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice On February 18, 2009, U. S. Steel received a letter from IDEM alleging that Gary Works was culpable for an ambient air quality exceedance for PM10 at the IITRI Monitoring Site. U. S. Steel responded to the letter on March 13, 2009. U. S. Steel met with IDEM on April 28, 2009 to resolve the issue. If Gary Works is determined to be culpable, U. S. Steel may be required to install and maintain two additional on site PM10 monitoring stations per the December 2006 Air Agreed Order. U. S. Steel continues to discuss the matter with IDEM. On April 13, 2009, Gary Works received a Notice of Violation from EPA Region 5 for alleged violations for New Source Review for reline of No. 13/14 during 2004 2005. U. S. Steel continues to meet with IDEM and EPA to negotiate resolution of the NOV. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. On August 20, 2009. Gary Works received an NOV and proposed Order alleging that Gary Works violated its NOx Trading Budget Allocations in 2006 ozone season. IDEM orginally proposed a penalty of $87,500. Because Gary Works corrected the error from its own allocations and no excess emissions occurred as a result of the NOx accounting error, IDEM agreed to reduce the penalty to $35,000. U. S. Steel verbally agreed to the reduced penalty and is currently drafting an Agreed Order with IDEM. Mon Valley Works On March 17, 2008, U. S. Steel entered a Consent Order and Agreement (COA) with the Allegheny County Health Department (ACHD) to resolve alleged opacity limitation and pushing and traveling violations from older coke oven batteries at its Clairton Plant and to resolve alleged opacity violations from its Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA required U. S. Steel to pay a civil penalty of $301,800 to resolve past alleged violations addressed by the COA. U. S. Steel paid the civil penalty on March 25, 2008. The COA requires U. S. Steel to conduct interim repairs on existing batteries and make improvements at the Ladle Metallurgical Facility and Steelmaking Shop at the Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA also requires that Batteries 7, 8 and 9 be shutdown by January 24, 2013 and Batteries 1, 2 and 3 be shutdown by August 11, 2015. Batteries 7 through 9 were shutdown in April 2009. We are repairing existing Batteries 19 and 20 and we continue to evaluate plans to construct new coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. U. S. Steel is also making upgrades at its Edgar Thomson Plant that would reduce emissions. On September 3, 2009, U. S. Steel Mon Valley Clairton Works incurred a catastrophic failure of its Desulfurization Plant. Because of this event, the Clairton, Edgar Thomson, and Irvin plants have exceeded their sulfur limit for air emissions when burning coke oven gas. The Desulfurization Plant was inoperable from September 3, 2009 through the remainder of 2009. U. S. Steel has provided the regulatory agencies with reports and updates. While no NOV has been issued to date, the Allegheny County Health Department has verbally indicated that it intends to issue a violation notice regarding the inability to desulfuirze the coke oven gas to meet the sulfur loading limits. On October 8, 2009, Mon Valley Clairton Works received a NOV from ACHD alleging that Clairton Works was culpable for hydrogen sulfide (H2S) Pennsylvania ambient air quality standard exceedances. The NOV requires U. S. Steel to submit a plan with milestones to reduce and minimize fugitive emissions of coke oven gas from the coke producing operations at Clairton including identification of coke oven gas emission sources and method of improved emission prevention and control. While U. S. Steel appealed the NOV on October 16, 2009, U. S. Steel 44 Table of Contents submitted an Action Plan to ACHD that was required by the NOV. U. S. Steel and ACHD have performed H2S modeling and are in the process of evaluating all potential sources of H2S in the area. U. S. Steel and ACHD continue to meet and discuss resolution. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a SWMU (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After the acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel has submitted a Closure Plan to IDEM recommending consolidation and in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.0 million and was recorded as an accrued liability as of December 31, 2009. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform an RFI and a CMS at our Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $617,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997. In accordance with the consent decree, U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two supplemental environmental projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the Fairfield Works facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) with the approval of EPA assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works. ADEM is currently reviewing the Phase II RFI work plan. The remaining cost to develop and implement the Phase II RFI work plan is estimated to be $787,000. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc., whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $210,000. In 2006, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of Upper Opossum Creek at a cost of $2.95 million, with a remaining contingency of $18,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. In 2007, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of approximately two acres of land at the former Ensley coke plant. As of December 31, 2009, costs to complete the remediation of this area have amounted to $1.3 million. An additional $49,000 remains accrued for project contingencies at Ensley with an additional $65,000 accrued for the contiguous properties. In total, the accrued liability for the projects described above was $1.0 million as of December 31, 2009, based on estimated remaining costs. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Lorain Tubular Operations In September 2006, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) inviting U. S. Steel to enter into discussions about RCRA Corrective Action at Lorain Tubular Operations. Those discussions resulted in the identification of ten SWMUs and three Areas of Concern (AOC) requiring further investigation and evaluation. In addition, U. S. Steel notified Ohio EPA in August 2009 of an additional SWMU based upon its field observations and a preliminary assessment. Currently, U. S. Steel is implementing a Phase I RFI on the identified SWMUs and AOCs. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has spent $223,000 on studies at 45 Table of Contents this site. Costs to complete additional studies are estimated to be $547,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Great Lakes Works On January 6, 2006, U. S. Steel received a proposed administrative consent order from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the Great Lakes Works facility. On February 13, 2007, MDEQ and U. S. Steel agreed to a revised Administrative Consent Order that resolves this matter. As required by the Administrative Consent Order, U. S. Steel has paid a civil penalty of $300,000 and has reimbursed MDEQ $50,000 in costs. The Order identifies certain compliance actions that address the alleged violations. U. S. Steel has completed work on most of these compliance actions, and has initiated work on the others. One of the compliance actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has completed the corrective measure necessary to remove historical basin sediments from these areas. As of December 31, 2009, $1.8 million had been spent on the project. In addition, $161,000 remains accrued for possible additional requirements to obtain MDEQ approval. Another compliance action includes modifications to the Cold Mill Wastewater Treatment Plant where U. S. Steel has agreed to rehabilitate four clarifiers and two wastewater conveyance pipelines, upgrade the computer control system and evaluate other potential improvements of this system. The vast majority of the elements of this project have been completed at a cost of $8.8 million and U. S. Steel anticipates spending an additional $110,000 most of which will be capitalized. Costs to complete the few remaining compliance actions are presently not determinable. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Great Lakes Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Great Lakes Works violated casthouse roof monitor and baghouse opacity limits; slag pit opacity limits; Basic Oxygen Process roof monitor opacity limits; and certain permit recordkeeping and parametric monitoring requirements. Great Lakes Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the DOJ. Granite City Works U. S. Steel received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004, for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop at our Granite City Works facility. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occurs when coke is pushed out of the ovens, for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. In December 2006, IEPA added to its complaint by adding a release of coke oven gas in February 2006. In October 2007, the Court entered a Second Supplemental Complaint in which IEPA added alleged violations regarding excessive opacity emissions from the blast furnace, and incorrect sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission factors regarding blast furnace gas emissions. On December 18, 2007, U. S. Steel entered into a Consent Order with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA that resolved the Complaint, as supplemented. The Order required that U. S. Steel: (1) pay a penalty of $300,000, which U. S. Steel paid on January 10, 2008; (2) demonstrate compliance with Coke Oven Pushing Operations in accordance with the compliance schedule provided in the Order; (3) comply with the basic oxygen furnace (BOF) opacity emissions in accordance with the schedule provided in the Order; and (4) submit to IEPA a revised permit application with the correct SO2 emission factors, which U. S. Steel submitted in January 2008. On September 30, 2008, U. S. Steel submitted a revised BOF Compliance Schedule and requested to modify the Order consistent with the revised BOF Compliance Schedule. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating with IEPA and the Illinois Attorney General as to what upgrades at the BOF will precede the compliance demonstration. U. S. Steel met with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA on June 11, 2009 to discuss the BOF Compliance Plan and Schedule. While the meeting was productive, the compliance demonstration deadline for the BOF remains indefinitely postponed by agreement of the parties. At Granite City Works, U. S. Steel and Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway), a subsidiary of SunCoke Energy, Inc., have agreed with two environmental advocacy groups to establish an Environmental Trust 46 Table of Contents Fund (Trust), which requires the permittees (U. S. Steel and Gateway) to collectively deposit $1.0 million by September 30th of each year, beginning September 30, 2008 and ending September 30, 2012. U. S. Steel contributed $500,000 to the Trust on September 30, 2008, which amounted to its share of the required 2008 deposit. On September 30, 2009, U. S. Steel contributed an additional $500,000 to the Trust pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. As grantors, U. S. Steel and Gateway have established the Trust as a part of the cost to construct a heat recovery coke plant adjacent to Granite City Works. The capital contribution and all net income of the Trust are to be used for the purposes of promoting energy efficiency, greenhouse gas reductions and PM2.5 emission reduction, to be implemented in the local community where Granite City Works is located. The Trust can be used for projects at public buildings or property owned by the city, local schools, parks and library districts. On February 2, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging approximately 16 separate violations. Specifically, IEPA alleged that Granite City Works: inappropriately charged a battery while off the collecting mains because of (1) damaged coke guides on one occasion and (2) derailment of the pushing control system on two occasions; failed to perform some monthly and quarterly inspections required by Iron & Steel Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards or Coke MACT standards; failed to initiate repairs within 30 days after recording that the baffles on the quench tower were damaged on the monthly inspection report; failed to adequately wash the baffles on the quench tower per the MACT standard; inappropriately used the emergency pour station at the BOP during routine, non emergency maintenance; failed to sufficiently apply a wetting agent to the slag from BF A to minimize fugitive emissions while loading trucks and failed to update and properly implement its Fugitive Dust Program. U. S. Steel provided a written response to IEPA on March 18, 2009 and met with IEPA on April 8, 2009 to resolve the issues identified in the NOV. U. S. Steel supplemented its response on April 29, 2009. IEPA has not made any penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. On March 17, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging the following at Granite City Works: door leaks from B Battery; volatile organic compounds from pressure relief valves from gas blanketing tank; coke by products process unit and information (lacking); failure to report retagging project for benzene in service equipment; and failure to maintain records for benzene in service equipment repairs. U. S. Steel responded to the NOV on May 8, 2009, and met with IEPA regarding the issues identified in the NOV on June 9, 2009. IEPA has not made a penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. In late January 2009, Granite City Works exceeded its natural gas usage and corresponding emission limits for 2008 at designated combustion units, including boilers and ladle drying. A notification letter was submitted to IEPA by U. S. Steel on January 30, 2009. Per U. S. Steels January 30, 2009 correspondence, U. S. Steel provided a Compliance Plan regarding fuel use and fuel balance to IEPA on February 28, 2009. IEPA has not responded to the self reported violations or made any penalty demand. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Granite City Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Granite City Works: failed to apply for an obtain a Prevention of Signficant Deterioration/New Source Review permit for the 1994 B Blast Furnace reline (while the furnace was owned by National Steel Corporation); exceeded BOP roof monitor opacity limits, exceeded blast furnace casthouse roof monitor opacity limits; and failed to complete certain permit recordkeeping and parameteric monitoring requirements. Granite City Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and the current property owner pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality. U. S. Steel developed work plans and completed remediation on certain areas of the site. Having completed the invesigation on a majority of remaining areas identified in the permit, U. S. Steel has 47 Table of Contents determined that the most effective means to address the remaining impacted material is to manage those materials in a previously approved on site Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU). U. S. Steel has recorded a liability of $66 million as of December 2009, for our estimated share of the remaining costs of remediation, including the construction, waste management, closure and post closure of a CAMU. USS POSCO Industries (UPI) At UPI, a joint venture between subsidaries of U. S. Steel and POSCO Industries, corrective measures have been implemented for the majority of the former SWMUs. Seven SWMUs remain at the facility, five of which require further remediation. Prior to the formation of UPI, U. S. Steel owned and operated the Pittsburg, California facility and U. S. Steel retained responsibility for the existing environmental conditions. Two SWMUs may not require further action pending a No Further Action decision by the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC). Of the five SWMUs requiring remediation, U. S. Steel is nearing completion of investigatory work which will result in engineered remedies for two SWMUs. These SWMUs include the impacted ground water at the former wire mill, and the coal tar pitch impacted soils near the old foundry building. U. S. Steel is continuing discussions with the DTSC regarding additional corrective measures that may be required at the three remaining SWMUs within the facility. Arsenic impacted soils and groundwater have been delineated at these three SWMUs. While it is likely that corrective measures will be required at these SWMUs, it is not possible at this time to define a scope or estimate costs for what may be required by DTSC. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Other On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB) entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Implementation of the preferred remedy was essentially completed in late 2007. The respondents are finalizing the Removal Action Summary report by addressing some minor site maintenance issues, deed restrictions and operating and maintenance plans for approval by KDHE. U. S. Steel and SSB continue to work with KDHE to address site maintenance issues. At December 31, 2009, an accrual of $121,000 remains available for these project contingencies. On January 23, 2006, Kansas Department of Health and Environment KDHE sent a letter to U. S. Steel requesting that U. S. Steel address a former zinc smelter site in Girard, Kansas. U. S. Steel completed a site investigation, and submitted a Corrective Action Study (CAS) necessary to address the impacted soils at this site. KDHE approved the CAS on November 17, 2009. In addition, a Consent Agreement and Final Order, through which the remediation will be conducted, remains to be negotiated with KDHE. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has an accrued liability of $1 million to complete the investigation and conduct the remedial measure as proposed in the CAS. In January of 2004, U. S. Steel received notice of a claim from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and notice of claims from citizens of a cap failure at the Dayton Landfill. U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil are the largest PRPs at the site and have agreed to equally share costs for investigating the site, making U. S. Steels share 33 1/3 percent. The Remedial Action Plan for the site was approved by TCEQ in June 2009. On December 10, 2009, pursuant to the Texas Solid Waste Disposal Act, The Cox Road Group (comprised of U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil) filed a contribution/cost of recovery action against apporximately 50 parties in Liberty County, Texas. Implementation of remedial measures is expected to be initiated in 2010. The accrued liability to complete U. S. Steels one third portion of the site investigations and implement the remedial measure was $1.8 million as of December 31, 2009. 48 Table of Contents Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2010, are as follows: Name Age Title Executive OfficerSince George F. Babcoke 53 Senior Vice President European Operations & President U. S. Steel Koice March 1, 2008 James D. Garraux 57 General Counsel & Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs February 1, 2007 John H. Goodish 61 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer December 31, 2001 Gretchen R. Haggerty 54 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer December 31, 2001 David H. Lohr 56 Senior Vice President Strategic Planning, Business Services & Administration June 1, 2008 John P. Surma 55 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer December 31, 2001 Susan M. Suver 50 Vice President Human Resources November 1, 2007 Gregory A. Zovko 48 Vice President & Controller April 1, 2009 All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel or our subsidiaries for more than the past five years, with the exception of Ms. Suver. Prior to joining U. S. Steel, Ms. Suver served as corporate vice president, Global Human Resources for Arrow Electronics, Inc. (Arrow), a $12 billion global provider of industrial and commercial electronic components and computer products. She joined Arrow in 2001 as vice president, Global Organizational Development. Prior to that, she served as vice president, Organization Effectiveness and Communication for Phelps Dodge Corporation. Messrs. Garraux, Goodish and Surma and Ms. Haggerty will hold office until the annual election of executive officers by the Board of Directors following the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or until his or her earlier resignation, retirement or removal. Messrs. Babcoke, Lohr and Zovko and Ms. Suver will hold office until their resignation, retirement or removal. 49 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 61. As of January 31, 2010, there were 20,322 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. Dividends are declared by U. S. Steel on a quarterly basis. For the first quarter of 2009, the dividend declared per share of U. S. Steel common stock was $.30 and for the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, the dividend declared was $.05. For the first and second quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.25 and for the third and fourth quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.30. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds. Shareholder Return Performance The graph below compares the yearly change in cumulative total shareholder return of our common stock with the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poors (S&Ps) 500 Stock Index and the S&P Steel Index. The S&P Steel Index is comprised of U. S. Steel, Nucor Corporation, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated and Worthington Industries, Inc. 50 Table of Contents Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities U. S. Steel had no sales of unregistered securities during the period covered by this report and we have suspended purchases under our Common Stock Repurchase Program. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2009 2008 2007(a) 2006 2005 Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(b) $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 $ 15,715 $ 14,039 (Loss) income from operations(c) (1,684 ) 3,069 1,213 1,785 1,439 Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(c) (1,401 ) 2,112 879 1,374 910 Per Common Share Data: Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(d) basic (10.42 ) 18.04 7.44 11.88 7.87 diluted (10.42 ) 17.96 7.40 11.18 7.00 Dividends per share declared and paid 0.45 1.10 0.80 0.60 0.38 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 15,422 $ 16,087 $ 15,632 $ 10,586 $ 9,822 Capitalization: Debt(e) $ 3,364 $ 3,145 $ 3,257 $ 1,025 $ 1,612 United States Steel Corporation stockholders equity 4,676 4,895 5,531 4,365 3,324 Total capitalization $ 8,040 $ 8,040 $ 8,788 $ 5,390 $ 4,936 (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. (b) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from higher average realized prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe (including favorable foreign currency effects) and higher shipments of flat rolled and tubular products in the U.S. The increase in net sales from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from higher shipments and increased average realized prices prices in all three reportable segments. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2006 to 2007 mainly resulted from higher raw materials and outage related costs in the U.S. and Europe, increased maintenance costs in the U.S., lower average realized prices for tubular products in the U.S. and unfavorable inventory transition effects related to inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco. These were partially offset by higher prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe. The increase from 2005 to 2006 was mainly due to higher average realized prices in the U.S., higher shipments of flat rolled products in the U.S. and in Europe and lower raw materials costs in Europe. These were partially offset by higher raw materials costs in the U.S. (d) See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2009 and 2008 see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from new debt issued to fund the acquisitions of USSC and Lone Star. The decrease from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from the repurchase of most of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due August 1, 2008, and from the repayment and termination of a 195 million credit facility at USSK. 51 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the tenth largest steel producer in the world and the largest integrated steel producer headquartered in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions to produce a wide range of flat rolled and tubular steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil, gas and petrochemical industries. In addition to our facilities in the United States, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Canada through U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) and in Europe through U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), located in Serbia. U. S. Steels financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. While the operating results of our various businesses are affected by a number of business specific factors (see Item 1. Business Steel Industry Background and Competition), the primary drivers for U. S. Steel are general economic conditions in North America, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other benefits costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. Following several years of strong performance, the steel industry and U. S. Steel were quickly and severely impacted by the global recession starting in late 2008. In response to these economic conditions, our strategy has been to enhance our liquidity, maintain a solid balance sheet and position ourselves for success in the longer term. In late 2008 and early 2009, we idled all or portions of numerous steel making, finishing, raw materials and tubular operations in the U.S., Canada and Europe and operated our remaining facilities at reduced levels to match our customers lower demand requirements. We continue to monitor the impact of the economic situation on our customers and to adjust our operations to efficiently meet their requirements. Our raw steel capability utilization rate in 2009 was 48% for Flat rolled operations and 69% for USSE operations. With respect to financial matters, we reduced our quarterly dividend, completed successful offerings of senior convertible notes and common stock and renegotiated the provisions of existing financial covenants with lenders. We initiated substantial cost reduction activities at all locations, including reducing our non represented workforce through restructuring, attrition and early retirement programs. We agreed with the United Steel Workers (USW) to defer certain mandatory trust contributions, implemented a hiring freeze, eliminated merit pay salary increases, suspended the Company match on our 401(k) program, and reduced fees for Board of Directors and base salaries for all general managers and executives. We significantly reduced our capital expenditures for 2009 from the original plan of $740 million to $472 million by focusing largely on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. We voluntarily contributed $140 million to the main defined benefit plan as we still believe that this is appropriate to mitigate larger potential funding requirements in the future. We refinanced $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds extending their maturity dates from 2011 to maturity dates ranging from 2017 to 2030. We finished the year with total liquidity of $2.5 billion, an improvement of nearly $300 million from the average of the previous five year ends. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to earn a competitive return on capital employed by implementing our strategy to be a world leader in safety and environmental performance; to continue to increase our value added product mix; to further expand our global business platform; to maintain a strong capital structure, balance sheet and liquidity position; to continue to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to attract and retain a diverse and talented workforce. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which are impacting the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the level of unfunded pension and other benefits obligations; the degree of industry consolidation; the impact of production and consumption of steel in China and other developing countries; and the levels of steel imports into the markets we serve. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to employee benefits liabilities and assets held in trust relating to such liabilities; the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; goodwill and intangible assets; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations and potential litigation claims and settlements. Managements estimates are based on historical experience, current business and market conditions, and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. LIFO (last in, first out) is the predominant method of inventory costing for inventories in the United States and FIFO (first in, first out) is the predominant method used in Canada and Europe. The LIFO method of inventory costing was used for 49 percent and 39 percent of consolidated inventories at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Equity Method Investments Investments in entities over which U. S. Steel has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are carried at U. S. Steels share of net assets plus loans, advances and our share of earnings less distributions. Differences in the basis of the investment and the underlying net asset value of the investee, if any, are amortized into earnings over the remaining useful life of the associated assets. Income from investees includes U. S. Steels share of income from equity method investments, which is generally recorded a month in arrears, except for significant and unusual items which are recorded in the period of occurrence. Gains or losses from changes in ownership of unconsolidated investees are recognized in the period of change. Intercompany profits and losses on transactions with equity investees have been eliminated in consolidation subject to lower of cost or market inventory adjustments. U. S. Steel evaluates impairment of its equity method investments whenever circumstances indicate that a decline in value below carrying value is other than temporary. Under these circumstances, we would adjust the investment down to its estimated fair value, which then becomes its new carrying value. Pensions and Other Benefits The recording of net periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pensions and other benefits is based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the 53 Table of Contents assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steels investment strategy for its U.S. pension and other benefits plan assets provides for a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality bonds and selected smaller investments in private equities, investment trusts, timber and mineral interests. For its U.S. pension plans, U. S. Steel has a target allocation for plan assets of 60 percent equities with the balance primarily invested in corporate bonds and government backed bonds and Treasury bills. For the Other Benefit plans, the target allocation for plan assets is 65 percent equities. U. S. Steel also believes that returns on equities over the long term will be higher than returns from fixed income securities as actual historical returns from U. S. Steels trusts have shown. Returns on bonds tend to offset some of the shorter term volatility of stocks. Both equity and fixed income investments are made across a broad range of industries and companies to provide protection against the impact of volatility in any single industry as well as company specific developments. U. S. Steel is currently using an 8.00 percent assumed rate of return for purposes of the expected return on assets for the development of net periodic cost for the main defined benefit pension plan and Other Benefits. This rate was chosen by taking into account the intended asset mix and the historical premiums that fixed income and equity investments have yielded above government bonds. Actual returns since the inception of the plans have exceeded this 8.00 percent rate and while some recent annual returns have not, it is U. S. Steels expectation that future periods will return to this level. For USSC defined benefit pension plans, U. S. Steels investment strategy is similar to its strategy for U.S. plans, whereby the Company seeks a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality corporate and government bonds and selected smaller investments with a target allocation for plan assets of 65 percent equities. A 7.50 percent rate of return is being used for the development of net periodic costs in 2010 which is lower than the U.S. pension plan assumption as subcategories within the asset mix are from a more limited investment universe and, as a result, have a lower expected return. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate used to measure both domestic pension and other benefits obligations to 5.5 percent from 6.0 percent. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which we estimate the pension and other benefits liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting the domestic rates, we utilize several AAA and AA corporate bond indices as an indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. For USSC benefit plans, a discount rate was selected through a similar review process using Canadian bond rates and indices and at December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate to 6.0 percent from 6.5 percent for its Canadian based pension and other benefits. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Much of our costs for the domestic USW participants retiree health benefits (other than for most surviving spouses) in the Companys main domestic insurance plan are subject to a cost cap that was negotiated in 2003. As a result of the collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) (see Note 17 to the Financial Statements), our costs are subject to the full impact of escalation for the surviving spouse beneficiaries since their retiree premium contributions are now a flat fixed amount. Escalation applies to most other groups within the Companys insurance plans, but does not apply to most domestic non union retirees since their benefits are limited to flat dollar amounts. For measurement of its domestic retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 8.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2015 and remain at that level thereafter. For measurement of its Canadian retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 7.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2014 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, including multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $270 million in 2010 compared to $271 million in 2009. Pension cost for 2009 included $80 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Total other benefits costs in 2010 are expected to be approximately $150 million, compared to $191 million in 2009. Other benefit costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Excluding the 2009 settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the expected increase in total pension cost is primarily due to a lower market related value of plan assets primarily due to further recognition of the asset losses that were incurred in 2008. 54 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical  1/2 percentage point change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and other benefits calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) 1/2% (1/2%) Expected return on plan assets Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension cost for 2010 $ (52 ) $ 52 Discount rate Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension & other benefits costs for 2010 $ (22 ) $ 32 Pension & other benefits liabilities at December 31, 2009 $ (613 ) $ 658 Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental increase (decrease) in: Service and interest cost components for 2010 $ 8 $ (7 ) Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost over the fair value of acquired identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities assumed from businesses acquired. We have two reporting units that have a significant amount of goodwill. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007. These amounts reflect the benefits we expect the Flat rolled reporting unit to realize from expanding our flexibility in meeting our customers needs and running our Flat rolled facilities at higher operating rates to source our semi finished product needs. Our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition, reflecting the benefits we expect the reporting unit to realize from the expansion of our tubular operations. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. U. S. Steel completed its annual goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of 2009 and determined that there was no goodwill impairment for either reporting unit. Fair value was determined in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820 on fair value, which requires consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable. For the 2009 annual goodwill impairment test, U. S. Steel used fair values estimated under the income approach and the market approach. Although considered, U. S. Steel did not utilize the cost approach as relevant data was not available. The income approach is based upon projected future cash flows discounted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk associated with the future cash flows. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using probability weighted scenarios of future cash flow projections based on managements long range estimates of market conditions over a multiple year horizon. A three percent perpetual growth rate was used to arrive at an estimated future terminal value. A discount rate of 11 percent was used for both reporting units which was based upon the cost of capital of other comparable steel companies, which we view as the most likely market participants. The market approach is based upon an analysis of valuation metrics for companies comparable to our reporting units. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using an appropriate valuation multiple based on this analysis, estimated normalized earnings and an estimated control premium. 55 Table of Contents In order to validate the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units, a reconciliation of the aggregate fair values of all reporting units to market capitalization, using a reasonable control premium, was performed as of the valuation date. We further validated the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units using other valuation metrics that included data from historical U. S. Steel transactions as well as published analyst reports. As of December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively, but would still result in no goodwill impairment charge. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit under the income approach are determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions, including assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or assumed growth rates, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. U. S. Steel has determined that certain acquired intangible assets have indefinite useful lives. These assets are reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long lived assets U. S. Steel evaluates long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of those productive assets exceed their projected undiscounted cash flows. We evaluate the impairment of long lived assets at the asset group level. Our asset groupings are the same as our reporting units. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel determines that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of our deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of our net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. income taxes on undistributed foreign earnings because as of December 31, 2009, it remained managements intention to continue indefinitely to reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2009 amounted to approximately $2,901 million. If such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $870 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss for items that have been or may be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, court case, tax ruling or other authoritative tax position), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2009, the total accrual for environmental remediation was $203 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations. Due to uncertainties inherent in remediation projects, it is possible that total remediation costs for active matters may exceed the accrued liability by as much as 15 to 30 percent. Segments U. S. Steel has three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2008, the operating results of our iron ore operations, which were previously included in Other Businesses, are included in the Flat rolled segment. The iron ore operations are managed as part of our Flat rolled segment, which consumes almost all of our iron ore production. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this change. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels North American integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of slabs, rounds, strip mill plates, sheets and tin mill products , as well as all iron ore and coke production facilities in the United States and Canada. The steel rounds and a portion of the hot rolled sheets produced by Flat rolled are supplied to the Tubular segment. These operations primarily serve North American customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), construction, container, and appliance and electrical markets. Flat rolled has annual raw steel production capability of 24.3 million tons. Flat rolled had annual raw steel production capability of 20.2 million tons for the year ended December 31, 2007 as annual raw steel production capability includes U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Raw steel production was 11.7 million tons in 2009, 19.2 million tons in 2008 and 16.8 million tons in 2007. Raw steel production averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009, 79 percent of capability in 2008 and 83 percent of capability in 2007. The USSE segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and coke production facilities in Slovakia; U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and other facilities in Serbia; and equity investees located in Europe. USSE primarily serves customers in the European construction, service center, conversion, container, transportation (including automotive), appliance and electrical, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. USSE produces and sells slabs, sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill products and spiral welded pipe, as well as heating radiators and refractory ceramic materials. USSE has annual raw steel production capability of 7.4 million tons. USSEs raw steel production was 5.1 million tons in 2009, 6.4 million tons in 2008 and 6.8 million tons in 2007. USSEs raw steel production averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009, 86 percent of capability in 2008 and 92 percent of capability in 2007. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels tubular production facilities, primarily in the United States, and equity investees in the United States and Brazil. These operations produce and sell seamless and electric resistance welded (ERW) steel casing and tubing (commonly known as oil country tubular goods or OCTG), standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. Tubulars annual production capability is 2.8 million tons. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses include transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations and engineering consulting services. For further information, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents Net Sales (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Net Sales by Segment (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2009 2008 2007(b) Flat rolled(a) $ 6,814 $ 13,789 $ 9,986 USSE 2,944 5,487 4,667 Tubular 1,216 4,251 1,985 Total sales from reportable segments 10,974 23,527 16,638 Other Businesses(a) 74 227 235 Net sales $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 (a) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements. (b) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2009 versus Year Ended December 31, 2008 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 40 % 8 % 0 % 1 % 2 % 51 % USSE 20 % 20 % 1 % 3 % 2 % 46 % Tubular 63 % 5 % 1 % 0 % 4 % 71 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The decrease in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected decreased shipments (down 7.0 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $129 per net ton). The decrease in sales for USSE was primarily due to decreased shipments (down 1.2 million net tons) and lower average realized euro based transaction prices (down $295 per net ton including foreign currency translation effects). The decrease in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from decreased shipments (down 1.3 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $286 per net ton). 58 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 versus Year Ended December 31, 2007 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 19 % 19 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 38 % USSE 7 % 18 % 1 % 7 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 40 % 64 % 4 % 0 % 6 % 114 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The increase in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected higher average realized prices (up $138 per ton) and increased shipments, primarily due to the inclusion of USSC for all of 2008. The increase in sales for USSE was primarily due to higher average realized euro based transaction prices and currency translation effects, partially offset by reduced shipments. Including the currency translation effects, reported average realized prices increased $212 per ton from 2007. The increase in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from higher average realized prices (up $706 per ton) and increased shipments, partially due to the inclusion of the former Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) facilities for the entire year in 2008. Operating Expenses Profit based union payments Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Allocated to segment results $ $ 237 $ 119 Retiree benefit expenses 99 Total $ $ 237 $ 218 Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 did not include any costs for profit based payments to employees represented by the USW because the base threshold of operating income agreed to in the 2008 CBAs was not met. Results for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 include costs related to profit based payments. These costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Profit based payment amounts per the agreements with the USW are calculated as a percentage of consolidated income from operations (as defined in the agreements) and are paid as profit sharing to active USW represented employees (excluding employees of USSC) based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. Amounts in 2007 also include costs related to a trust that was to be used to assist retirees from National Steel with health care costs. Pension and other benefits costs Defined benefit and multiemployer pension plan costs totaled $271 million during 2009, $78 million during 2008 and $129 million in 2007. Pension costs during 2009 included $80 million for several voluntary early retirement programs (VERPs) and losses in connection with the sale of a majority of the operating assets of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E). Excluding these losses, the increase in expense from 2008 to 2009 mainly reflected the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Pension costs during 2007 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $20 million. Excluding these losses, the decrease in expense from 2007 to 2008 mainly reflected the improved funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $25 million during 2009, $35 million during 2008 and $26 million during 2007. Costs in 2009 included $13 million for VERP related benefits under these plans. Other benefits costs, which are included in income from operations, totaled $191 million in 2009, $149 million in 2008 and $136 million in 2007. Other benefits costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and 59 Table of Contents curtailment losses. Excluding these losses, the increase in 2009 was primarily due to impacts of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs partially offset by lower costs at USSC as a result of favorable claims experience. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of expenses related to USSC employees for the full year. For additional information on pensions and other benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Nonretirement postemployment benefits U. S. Steel incurred costs of and paid approximately $85 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 related to employee costs for supplemental unemployment benefits, salary continuance and continuation of health care benefits and life insurance coverage for employees associated with the temporary idling of certain facilities and reduced production at others. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $618 million in 2009, $625 million in 2008 and $589 million in 2007. Pension and other benefits costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $164 million in 2009, $47 million in 2008 and $86 million in 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses remained consistent from 2008 to 2009 but were impacted by an increase in pension and OPEB costs offset by a decrease in compensation expense. The increase in 2008 mainly resulted from increased expenses related to our 2007 acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and higher compensation expense, partially offset by lower pension expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization Depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses were $661 million in 2009, $605 million in 2008 and $506 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily related to the fact that effective January 1, 2009 we eliminated the use of the modified straight line method, which was previously used for certain steel producing assets in the United States. The increase in 2008 was primarily related to the full year impact of assets acquired in the business acquisitions during 2007. The modification factors previously applied to straight line calculations ranged from a minimum of 85 percent at a production level below 81 percent of capability, to a maximum of 105 percent for a 100 percent production level. No modification was made at the 95 percent production level. Applying modification factors decreased depreciation expense, when compared to a straight line calculation, by $58 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 60 Table of Contents (Loss) Income from Operations(a) Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 2007 Flat rolled(b) $ (1,438 ) $ 1,390 $ 382 USSE (208 ) 491 687 Tubular 57 1,207 356 Total (loss) income from reportable segments (1,589 ) 3,088 1,425 Other Businesses(b) (2 ) 77 84 Segment (loss) income from operations (1,591 ) 3,165 1,509 Retiree benefit expenses (134 ) (22 ) (143 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Federal excise tax refund 34 Litigation reserve 45 (45 ) Net (loss) gain on the sale of assets 97 Environmental remediation charge (49 ) (23 ) Workforce reduction charges (86 ) (57 ) Deferred gain recognition 150 Labor agreement signing payments (105 ) Asset impairment charge (28 ) Flat rolled inventory transition effects (23 ) (58 ) Tubular inventory transition effects (38 ) Total (loss) income from operations $ (1,684 ) $ 3,069 $ 1,213 (a) See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280. (b) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. 61 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled (Includes USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007) The Flat rolled segment generated a loss of $1,438 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $1,390 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted mainly from unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $2,450 million), lower income from reduced steel substrate sales to our Tubular segment (approximately $400 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities (approximately $360 million), facility restart costs (approximately $70 million) and lower income from equity investments (approximately $190 million). These were partially offset by lower raw material and natural gas costs (approximately $370 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $300 million). The increase in Flat rolleds segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 resulted mainly from higher commercial effects (approximately $2,780 million) and increased income from semi finished steel sales to Tubular (approximately $470 million). These were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials (approximately $1,560 million) and energy (approximately $280 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $170 million) and higher accruals for profit based payments (approximately $150 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. 62 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE The USSE segment generated a loss of $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $491 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $1,300 million) and reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $135 million) partially offset by lower raw material costs (approximately $620 million), reduced facility repair and maintenance costs (approximately $60 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $50 million). The decrease in USSEs segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to higher raw materials and energy costs (approximately $780 million), net unfavorable currency effects (approximately $50 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $40 million) and outage related costs (approximately $30 million), partially offset by higher commercial effects (approximately $740 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. Capability utilization in 2008 was adversely affected by the reline of the No. 1 blast furnace in Slovakia and by reduced operations late in the year to match declining customer demand. 63 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular (Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007) The decrease in Tubulars segment income in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to unfavorable commercial effects (approximately $1,080 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities and facilities operating at reduced production levels (approximately $35 million and $60 million, respectively) and write downs of inventory (approximately $35 million). These were partially offset by lower costs of substrate steel purchases from the Flat rolled segment (approximately $40 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $55 million). The increase in Tubulars segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 mainly resulted from higher commercial effects (approximately $1,580), due in part to the inclusion of results for facilities acquired from Lone Star for the entire year. This was partially offset by increased costs for semi finished steel (approximately $610 million) from Flat rolled and outside sources. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses generated a loss of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $77 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted from the impacts of the global recession and the sale of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E) in the first quarter of 2009. Results for Other Businesses decreased by $7 million from 2007 to 2008. Items not allocated to segments: Retiree benefit expenses increased significantly from 2008 to 2009 mainly due to the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Retiree benefit expenses decreased significantly from 2007 to 2008 mainly due to lower retiree pension expense (See Operating Expenses Pension and other benefits costs) and lower profit based expense related to certain former National Steel employees (See Operating Expenses Profit based union payments). 64 Table of Contents During 2009, U. S. Steel received a federal excise tax refund of $34 million associated with the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales from 1990 to 1992. A litigation reserve of $45 million involving a rate escalation provision in a U. S. Steel power supply contract was established in 2008 as a result of a court ruling and was subsequently reversed in 2009 as that decision was overturned. See Part II. Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings. We recorded a $97 million pre tax net gain on sale of assets in 2009 as a result of the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. The net gain included a pension curtailment loss of approximately $10 million. We recorded a $49 million environmental remediation charge in 2009 in connection with the definition of an expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works. We recorded a $23 million environmental remediation charge in 2008 as the scope of work became defined for an environmental project at a former operating location. Workforce reduction charges of $86 million in 2009 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a VERP offered in the first quarter of 2009 to certain non represented employees in the United States. Workforce reduction charges of $57 million in 2007 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a voluntary early retirement plan offered to certain employees at USSK. We recognized a noncash deferred gain of $150 million in 2008 in connection with the termination of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements. The 2008 CBAs provided for labor agreement signing payments of up to $6,000 per employee which resulted in a charge of $105 million in 2008. An asset impairment charge of $28 million in 2008 resulted from our decision to exit the drawn over mandrel (DOM) tubular products business. The charge was taken principally to write down to fair value equipment associated with the DOM business. Inventory transition effects of $23 million in 2008 and $96 million in 2007 reflected the charges for conforming certain inventories acquired from Lone Star to our unified business model, and the impact of selling inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco, which had been recorded at fair value. Net Interest and Other Financial Costs Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Interest and other financial costs $ 179 $ 179 $ 162 (a) Interest income (10 ) (14 ) (79 )(a) Foreign currency gains (8 ) (103 ) (4 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 26 Net interest and other financial costs $ 161 $ 62 $ 105 (a) The year ended December 31, 2007 includes $27 million of interest expense and offsetting interest income related to the obligation to provide benefits for National Steel retirees that was settled in the fourth quarter of 2007. While the obligation was outstanding, U. S. Steel invested the amount due in short term investments and interest earned on those investments was also payable. The increase in net interest and other financial costs from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to lower foreign currency gains. The decrease in net interest and other financial costs from 2007 to 2008 was mainly due to higher foreign currency gains and the nonrecurrence of the $26 million charge in 2007 related to the early redemption of certain debt, partially offset by increased interest expense resulting from debt incurred to fund the acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and lower interest income. 65 Table of Contents The foreign currency gains include remeasurement effects on a U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan (the Intercompany Loan) from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary related to the 2007 acquisition of USSC that had an outstanding balance of $892 million at December 31, 2009, partially offset by losses on euro U.S. dollar derivatives activity, which we use to mitigate our foreign currency exposure. Volatility in the foreign currency markets could have significant implications for U. S. Steel going forward as a result of the foreign currency accounting remeasurement effects resulting from the Intercompany Loan and foreign currency gains and losses on derivatives activity. For additional information on U. S. Steels foreign currency exchange activity see Note 15 to the Financial Statements and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. Income Taxes The income tax benefit in 2009 was $439 million, compared to provisions of $853 million in 2008 and $218 million in 2007. The tax benefit in 2009 is primarily related to the net loss for the period. The effective tax benefit rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 is lower than the statutory rate because losses in Canada and Serbia, which are jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, do not generate a tax benefit for accounting purposes. The increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily reflected higher income and a higher effective tax rate as a result of a lower percentage of pre tax earnings generated by our European operations. The net domestic deferred tax asset was $731 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $802 million at December 31, 2008. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset from 2009 to 2008 was primarily a result of the remeasurement of the pension and other benefits plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements). At December 31, 2009, the foreign deferred tax assets recorded were $103 million, net of established valuation allowances of $575 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the euro, the Canadian dollar and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian deferred tax assets due to the absence of positive evidence at USSC to support the realizability of the assets. A full valuation allowance is provided for Serbian deferred tax assets because current projected investment tax credits, which must be used before net operating losses and credit carryforwards, are more than sufficient to offset future tax liabilities. As USSC and USSS generate sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $514 million for Canadian deferred tax assets and $46 million for Serbian deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009, would be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. For further information on income taxes see Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Net income Net loss in 2009 was $1,401 million compared to income of $2,112 million in 2008 and $879 million in 2007. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2009 decreased by $717 million from year end 2008 primarily due to lower inventories and lower receivables partially offset by higher cash balances (see Cash Flows). The decrease in inventories primarily resulted from lower quantities of higher cost raw materials. Raw material inventory quantities decreased as U. S. Steel maintained lower operating rates throughout 2009 and reduced raw material purchases as a cash conservation measure. Receivables decreased mainly due to lower sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, due primarily to lower average realized prices. These decreases were partially offset by the recognition of an income tax receivable representing a portion of the federal income tax refund that we expect to receive in 2010 as a result of carrying back our expected 2009 losses to prior years. Goodwill of $1,725 million increased by $116 million from year end 2008 mainly as goodwill attributable to the acqusition of Stelco were reported at higher amounts due to foreign currency translation effects. 66 Table of Contents Assets held for sale at December 31, 2009 consist of certain assets at Hamilton Works, primarily property, plant and equipment, and decreased from December 31, 2008 as a result of the sale of the majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. Total deferred income tax benefits at year end 2009 remained consistent with the balance at year end 2008. Deferred income tax benefits were primarily impacted by an increase in foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards offset by an increase in the valuation allowance, since a full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian and Serbian deferred tax assets, and a decrease in the deferred income tax benefit related to employee benefits. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Current liabilities at year end 2009 decreased by $304 million from year end 2009 due mainly to lower payroll and benefits payable resulting from the absence of accruals for profit based payments and lower accrued taxes resulting from reduced net income in 2009 compared to 2008. Several balance sheet accounts changed as a result of an improvement in the net funded status of our pension and other employee benefits plans. Employee benefits decreased by $624 million and the accumulated other comprehensive loss decreased by $541 billion. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The decrease in the accumulated other comprehensive loss was also due to foreign currency translation effects as a result of the weakening U.S. dollar versus the Euro and the Canadian dollar. The increase in long term debt from December 31, 2008 was mainly due to our public offering in May 2009 of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014, partially offset by the repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. See Liquidity. Common stock and Additional paid in capital increased by $27 million and $666 million, respectively, compared to year end 2008 primarily as a result of our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May 2009. See Liquidity. Cash Flows Net cash used in operating activities was $61 million in 2009 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1,658 million in 2008 and $1,732 million in 2007. This change was primarily related to a net loss of approximately $696 million after adjustments for noncash items in 2009 compared to income of approximately $2.6 billion after adjustments for noncash items in 2008. The favorable working capital change in 2009 of approximately $1.3 billion mainly reflected lower inventory and receivables levels, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items in 2008 compared to 2007 was more than offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency translation effects due mainly to the strengthening of the U. S. dollar and unfavorable working capital effects (excluding the 2007 acquisitions). The unfavorable working capital change in 2008 mainly reflected higher inventory levels and the repurchase of receivables, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities for 2009 was increased and net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 and 2007 was reduced by employee benefits payments as shown in the following table. 67 Table of Contents Employee Benefits Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ 140 $ 140 $ 140 Required contributions to other defined benefit pension plans 79 73 23 Other employee benefits payments not funded by trusts 285 236 213 Contributions to trusts for retiree health care and life insurance(a) 12 228 498 Payments to a multiemployer pension plan 58 33 30 Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts 84 29 17 Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ 658 $ 739 $ 921 (a) Includes $143 million in 2008 and $468 million in 2007 for a company contribution to U. S. Steels trust for retiree health care and life insurance fulfilling the Companys obligation under an agreement with the USW regarding benefits for certain former National Steel employees. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and healthcare by the end of 2011. Capital expenditures variable interest entities was $147 million in 2009 and $161 million in 2008. This primarily reflects spending by Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) for a non recovery coke plant to supply Granite City Works. This spending is consolidated in our financial results but is funded by Gateway and, therefore, is completely offset by amounts included in distributions from noncontrolling interests, which is included in cash flow from financing activities. 68 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2009 of $472 million consisted largely of non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long term strategic importance, as we substantially reduced our capital spending from the original plan of $740 million to conserve liquidity. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $338 million in 2009included spending development of an enterprise resourceplanning (ERP) system, non discretionary environmentalprojects, maintenance on the No. 14 blast furnace at GaryWorks and cokemaking projects at Granite City Works andthe Clairton Plant, including the construction of acogeneration facility at Granite City Works. USSEexpenditures of $113 million included spending at USSK forthe maintenance of the No.3 blast furnace, a coke oven gasdesulphurization project and spending for development of theERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $465 million in 2008 included spending for modernization of our cokemaking facilities, including expenditures for construction of a cogeneration facility at Granite City Works, development of an ERP system and replacement of open pit mining equipment at our iron ore operations USSE expenditures of $210 million included spending at USSK for the reline of the No.1 blast furnace, for replacement of electrical power transformers and to upgrade a continuous caster, and spending for development of the ERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $418 million in 2007 included spending for development of an ERP system, blast furnace stove replacements at Granite City Works and Great Lakes Works, coke oven thru wall repairs primarily at our Clairton Plant and open pit mining equipment and an environmental project at our iron ore operations. USSE expenditures of $215 million included spending at USSK for an air emission reduction project and a new automotive quality galvanizing line, spending at USSS for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace, and spending for development of an ERP system. Construction of the new galvanizing line was completed in February 2007. 69 Table of Contents U. S. Steels contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2009, totaled $152 million. Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to total approximately $530 million and remain focused largely on environmental and other infrastructure projects. We continue to evaluate investments of long term strategic importance, including projects to invest in production of coke and coke substitutes, given that some of our existing coke batteries are approaching the end of their useful lives, to reduce coke requirements in Serbia through blast furnace coal injection, to enhance our Tubular operations in order to more efficiently serve customers increased focus on shale natural gas resources and to allow us to increase our participation in the automotive market as vehicle emission and safety requirements become more stringent. In light of the significant capital commitment that such projects would entail over the next several years, we may seek to secure some long term funding for such projects and general corporate purposes prior to committing to such projects. The preceding statement concerning expected 2010 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, ability to secure long term funding, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, receipt of necessary permits and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Z Line Company reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of pickle lines reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. reflected $2,050 million paid at closing, net of cash acquired of $71 million; plus $14 million of transaction costs to acquire all of the outstanding shares. Acquisition of Stelco Inc. reflected $1,237 million paid to acquire all of the outstanding stock and stock equivalents, $785 million paid to retire substantially all of the outstanding debt and $34 million paid to Stelcos main pension plans, net of cash acquired of $32 million; plus $13 million of transaction costs. Disposal of assets in 2009 reflected pre tax cash proceeds of approximately $300 million from the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E and $36 million from the sale of emissions allowances at U. S. Steel Koice (USSK). Restricted cash in 2009 primarily reflected collateral required on previously unsecured obligations. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2008 primarily reflected amounts drawn against a USSK 200 million three year revolving credit facility, the proceeds of which were used to reduce the Intercompany Loan (see Liquidity), as well as borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Repayments of revolving credit facilities in 2008 reflected repayment of borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Common stock issued in 2009 resulted from our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2009 resulted primarily from our public offering in May of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014. Also in 2009, we issued $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds (ERBs), maturing from 2017 to 2030. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the issuance of $300 million principal amount of 5.65% Senior Notes due 2013, $450 million principal amount of 70 Table of Contents 6.05% Senior Notes due 2017, $350 million principal amount of 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 and $500 million principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018; and our entrance into two $500 million term loans and a $400 million term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2009 primarily reflected repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. Also in 2009, we completed the refunding of $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds. See Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2008 primarily reflected payments on our term loans, including the early retirement of $300 million of our three year term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the early redemption of $378 million of 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010, the early redemption of $49 million of 10% Senior Quarterly Income Debt Securities due 2031 and the repayment of a $400 million term loan. Common stock repurchased in 2008 and 2007 totaled 2.0 million shares and 1.2 million shares, respectively. Our share repurchase program was originally authorized in July 2005. In 2006, our Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2009, 4.4 million shares remained authorized for repurchase. In late 2008, we suspended repurchases under this program as part of our reaction to the difficult global economic environment. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock 4th Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 1st Qtr. 2009 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.30 2008 $ 0.30 $ 0.30 $ 0.25 $ 0.25 2007 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 Liquidity The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2009: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,218 Amount available under $750 Million Credit Facility(b) 638 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 93 Amounts available under USSS credit facilities 55 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,504 (b) As of December 31, 2009, there were no amounts drawn on the Amended Credit Agreement and inventory levels supported the full $750 million of the facility. Since availability was greater than $112.5 million, compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio was not applicable. However, based on the most recent four quarters, as of December 31, 2009, we would not meet the fixed charge coverage ratio if we were to borrow more than $637.5 million. Therefore, we reduced the availability reflected by $112.5 million. 71 Table of Contents (a) Excludes $20 million, $20 million and $27 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, of cash primarily related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership (Partnership) because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. On October 31, 2008, we acquired the equity interests in the Partnership that we did not wholly own. Excludes $1 million of cash at December 31, 2008 related to our variable interest entities. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment and restatement of its $750 million Credit Agreement dated May 11, 2007 (Amended Credit Agreement) with a group of lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (Agent). U. S. Steel simultaneously entered into a security agreement with the Agent (Security Agreement) providing for a security interest in the majority of its domestic inventory. The Amended Credit Agreement established a borrowing base formula, which limits the amounts U. S. Steel can borrow to a certain percent of the value of certain domestic inventory less specified reserves, and eliminates the previous financial covenants that consisted of interest and leverage coverage ratios. The Amended Credit Agreement contains a new financial covenant requiring U. S. Steel to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (defined as consolidated EBITDA less certain capital expenditures and cash income tax expense to certain fixed charges) of at least 1.10 to 1.00 for the most recent four consecutive quarters when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million. The Amended Credit Agreement includes revised pricing and other customary terms and conditions, and will expire on May 11, 2012. For further information regarding the Amended Credit Agreement and Security Agreement, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) that provides up to $500 million of liquidity and letters of credit depending upon the number of eligible domestic receivables generated by U. S. Steel. The commitments under the RPA expire in September 2010. Domestic trade accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. If U. S. Steel decides to access this facility, USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables and if any of them are unable to fund such purchases, two banks are committed to do so. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into agreements which amended the RPA. These agreements increase certain reserve factors and percentages, provide for a termination event if there is a change of control of U. S. Steel, amend the definition of Eligible Receivables, change certain performance triggers and make conforming and clarifying changes. 72 Table of Contents The RPA may be terminated on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, failure by U. S. Steel to make payments under our material debt obligations and any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. For further information regarding the agreements, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. On May 4, 2009, U. S. Steel completed a public offering of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014 and 27,140,000 shares of its Common Stock. U. S. Steel received net proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion and used $655 million to repay all amounts outstanding under its three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Convertible Notes was $863 million. On December 11, 2009, USSK entered into a 10 million (approximately $14 million at December 31, 2009) unsecured revolving credit facility as the sole obligor. The facility expires January 2011. The facility bears interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contains other customary terms and conditions. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the facility. At December 31, 2009, USSK had no borrowings against its 40 million, 20 million and 10 million unsecured credit facilities (which approximated $101 million) but had $8 million of customs and other guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $93 million. At December 31, 2009, USSK had 200 million (approximately $288 million) fully drawn against a 200 million unsecured credit facility. USSK is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The 10 million facility expires January 2011, the 200 million facility expires July 2011, the 40 million facility expires October 2012 and the 20 million facility expires December 2012. During 2009, USSS amended its secured credit facility agreements to limit availability to the value of USSS inventory of finished and semi finished goods. These facilities include an 800 million Serbian dinar overdraft facility and a 40 million revolving credit facility (together approximately $69 million). USSS is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The facilities expire August 2010. At December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings against these facilities and availability was 39 million (approximately $55 million). On May 21, 2007, U. S. Steel issued a total of $1.1 billion of senior notes consisting of $350 million at 6.65 percent due 2037, $450 million at 6.05 percent due 2017, and $300 million at 5.65 percent due 2013, (collectively, the Senior Notes). The Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Notes was $1.1 billion. On December 10, 2007, U. S. Steel issued $500 million of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018 (the 2018 Senior Notes). The 2018 Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the 2018 Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. As of December 31, 2009, the principal amount outstanding under the 2018 Senior Notes was $500 million. We use surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. The use of some forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $150 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2009. Increases in these commitments which use collateral are reflected in restricted cash on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 73 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, in the event of a change in control of U. S. Steel, debt obligations totaling $2,462 million, which includes the Senior Notes and the Senior Convertible Notes, may be declared immediately due and payable. In such event, U. S. Steel may also be required to either repurchase the leased Fairfield slab caster for $45 million or provide a letter of credit to secure the remaining obligation. In the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, obligations of $354 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases, as well as $26 million relating to an operating lease, may be declared immediately due and payable. The guarantees of the indebtedness of unconsolidated entities of U. S. Steel totaled $11 million at December 31, 2009. In the event that any default related to the guaranteed indebtedness occurs, U. S. Steel has access to its interest in the assets of the investee to reduce its potential losses under the guarantee. U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $140 million to the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in both 2009 and 2008. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions of similar amounts in 2010 or later periods in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory contributions in later years. The contributions actually required will be greatly influenced by the level of voluntary contributions, the performance of pension fund assets in the financial markets, the elective use or disavowal of existing credit balances in future periods and various other economic factors and actuarial assumptions that may come to influence the level of the funded position in future years. The 2008 Collective Bargaining Agreements (see Note 17) require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions during the contract period to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance. This contribution is in addition to an annual $10 million required contribution to the same trust that continues from an earlier agreement. Under this earlier agreement, a $20 million contribution is required if the Company does not contribute at least $75 million to its main pension plan in the prior year. During 2008, the Company made $85 million in contributions to the trust under these agreements, as well as a $143 million contribution to cover some of the health and life benefits for certain retirees of National Steel Corporation. During the first quarter of 2009, the Company made a $10 million contribution to this trust. In April 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the annual $75 million mandatory contributions due in 2009 and the $10 million contribution due in January 2010. Further, the USW has agreed to permit us to use all or part of the $75 million contribution made in 2008 to pay current retiree health care and life insurance claims, subject to a make up contribution in 2013. Through December 31, 2009, none of the 2008 contribution funds have been used by the Company. In conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco, now USSC (see Note 4), U. S. Steel assumed the pension plan funding agreement (the Pension Agreement) that Stelco had entered into with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Province) on March 31, 2006 that covers USSCs four main pension plans. The Pension Agreement requires minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and additional annual contributions for benefit improvements, which currently are limited to the union retiree indexing provisions. The defined annual contributions will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. In its acquisition of Stelco on October 31, 2007, U. S. Steel assumed liability for a note issued to the Province of Ontario (Province Note) (see Note 4 to the Financial Statements). The face amount of the Province Note is C$150 million (approximately $142 million at December 31, 2009) and is payable on December 31, 2015. The Province Note is unsecured and is subject to a 75 percent discount if the solvency deficiencies in the four main USSC pension plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements) are eliminated on or before the maturity date. 74 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2009, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Long term debt (including interest) and capital leases(a) $ 4,954 $ 202 $ 943 $ 1,414 $ 2,395 Operating leases(b) $ 173 40 59 34 40 Unconditional purchase obligations(c) $ 11,540 4,442 2,627 1,305 3,166 Capital commitments(d) $ 152 114 38 Environmental commitments(d) $ 203 17 186 (e) Steelworkers Pension Trust $ 286 (f) 54 113 119 (f) (f) Pensions(g) $ 451 83 153 145 70 Other benefits(h) $ 1,940 (i) 415 880 645 (i) Unrecognized tax positions $ 106 106 (e) Total contractual obligations $ 19,805 $ 5,367 $ 4,813 $ 3,662 $ 5,963 (a) See Note 16 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Amounts exclude subleases. (c) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. Additionally, includes coke and steam purchase commitments related to a coke supply agreement with Gateway Energy & Coke Company LLC (See Note 18). (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Timing of potential cash flows is not reasonably determinable. (f) While It is difficult to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, which expire in 2012, projected amounts shown through 2014 assume that the current $2.65 contribution rate per hour will apply. (g) Amounts shown represent projected cash requirements for USSC pension plans, most of which relates to a funding scheme for USSCs four main plans, whereby under an agreement with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Pension Agreement), USSC is responsible for minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and smaller annual contributions for benefit improvements related to prior cost of living adjustments. The Pension Agreement will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015 when minimum funding requirements under the Pension Benefits Act will resume. U.S. dollar equivalents of contributions are based on foreign exchange rates as of December 31, 2009 and shown projected through 2015. (h) Excludes profit based payments that may be required through September 1, 2012, pursuant to the provisions of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments that may be required. (i) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for retiree medical and retiree life benefit obligations which require the use of corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2010 through 2014 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and include mandatory contributions to the USW VEBA trust of $75 million in 2010 and $85 million in both 2011 and 2012. Projected amounts do not reflect optional drawdowns from the USW VEBA trust if U. S. Steel decides to utilize certain options available under its agreements with the USW. Amounts to be used from the VEBA trust will be determined in 2010 and later years. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the asset trust mix, medical escalation rates and company decisions or restrictions related to our trusts for retiree healthcare and life insurance that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Due to these factors, amounts shown above could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. 75 Table of Contents Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table except for the contributions required for USSCs defined benefit pension plans. (See footnote (g) of the above table). U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and other benefits during 2010 and 2011. U. S. Steel may make voluntary contributions in 2010 or later periods to the main defined benefit pension plan in the United States in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory required contributions in later years. In addition to the USSC amounts included in the above table, U. S. Steel expects to make cash payments of $15 million to other pension plans not funded by trusts. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2009, and the effect such commitments could have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 122 $ 109 $ $ $ 13 (c) Surety bonds(a) 18 18 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 33 33 (c) Marathon Oil Corporation(a)(b) 26 26 Total commercial commitments $ 199 $ 109 $ 26 $ $ 64 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) Reflects the amount of U. S. Steels operating lease obligations that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. Our major cash requirements in 2010 are expected to be for capital expenditures, employee benefits and working capital requirements. We finished 2009 with $1.2 billion of available cash. As business conditions recover, our working capital requirements will likely increase and we may need to draw upon our credit facilities for necessary cash. Funding under the RPA and the Amended Credit Agreement is based on a pool of eligible domestic receivables and domestic inventory, respectively, both of which have declined as a result of lower orders and our efforts to reduce working capital. A sudden increase in orders could require a significant amount of investment in working capital. Should we experience a significant increase in orders or an unexpected need for funds that cannot be met with available cash and our liquidity facilities, we may need to access the capital markets. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy our obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Our opinion regarding liquidity is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than recent levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Debt and Senior Convertible Notes Ratings The ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt by Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) are BB and Ba3, respectively. On January 27, 2010, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) lowered its ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt from BBB to BB+ and revised its outlook to stable. Any further downgrades could reduce our access to the capital markets and increase our financing costs. 76 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, a portion of the labor force used by the investees is provided by U. S. Steel, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. In September 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utilities at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a cogeneration facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. U. S. Steel is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay annual capacity and operating and maintenance fees. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, which was effective January 1, 2004. During the initial 5 year period, U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that were annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Other guarantees, indemnifications and take or pay arrangements are discussed in Notes 18 and 28 to the Financial Statements. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations and similar obligations in Europe and Canada, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent that these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that our major North American, and many European, integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that our relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills, some foreign steel producers (particularly in developing economies such as China) and producers of materials which compete with steel, all of which may not be required to incur equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to our prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Many of our competitors do not have similar historical liabilities. Our U. S. facilities are subject to the U.S. environmental standards, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. 77 Table of Contents USSC is subject to the environmental laws of Canada, which are comparable to environmental standards in the United States. Environmental regulation in Canada is an area of shared responsibility between the federal government and the provincial governments, which in turn delegate certain matters to municipal governments. Federal environmental statutes include the federal Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 and the Fisheries Act. Various provincial statutes regulate environmental matters such as the release and remediation of hazardous substances; waste storage, treatment and disposal; and air emissions. As in the United States, Canadian environmental laws (federal, provincial and local) are undergoing revision and becoming more stringent. The Canadian and Ontario governments have identified a sediment deposit in Hamilton Harbor near USSCs Hamilton Works for remediation, which the regulatory agencies estimated several years ago will require expenditures of approximately C$90 million (approximately $85 million). The national and provincial governments have each allocated C$30 million (approximately $28 million) for this project and they have stated that they will be looking for local sources, including industry, to fund the remaining one third. USSC has committed C$7 million (approximately $7 million) as its contribution. Additional contributions may be sought. USSK is subject to the environmental laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). A related law of the EU commonly known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, Regulation 1907/2006) requires the registration of certain substances that are produced in the EU or imported into the EU. USSK pre registered various substances during the six month pre registration period that ended November 30, 2008, both on its own behalf and on behalf of U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries that may be shipping products into the EU. USSK is compliant with REACH and intends to register its substances by the applicable deadlines to remain in compliance and be able to continue its businesses without material change. USSS is subject to the environmental laws of Serbia. Under the terms of the acquisition in 2003, USSS is responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study in June 2004, which was submitted to the Government of Serbia. During 2008 and 2009, USSS spent approximately $50 million to reduce air particulate emissions and undertake other environmental projects pursuant to an agreement with the Serbian government. Many nations, including all where we operate, have or are considering the regulation of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Regulation of CO2 emissions is relevant to the steel industry and U. S. Steel. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States House of Representatives has passed a bill, a bill has been introduced to the Senate and the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified CO2 as a harmful gas. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 North America: Capital $ 28 $ 44 $ 21 Compliance Operating & maintenance 294 409 278 Remediation(a) 19 27 28 Total North America $ 341 $ 480 $ 327 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 55 $ 51 Compliance Operating & maintenance 16 17 18 Remediation(a) 7 18 7 Total USSE $ 90 $ 90 $ 76 Total U. S. Steel $ 431 $ 570 $ 403 (a) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. 78 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 20 percent of total capital expenditures in 2009, 11 percent in 2008 and 10 percent in 2007. Environmental compliance expenditures represented three percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2009 and two percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2008 and 2007. Remediation spending during 2007 through 2009 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at our Fairless Plant and Lorain Tubular Operations. RCRA corrective action programs have been initiated at Gary Works, Fairfield Works and USS POSCO Industries. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. The following table shows activity with respect to environmental remediation liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 410. Environmental Remediation Liabilities (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Beginning Balance $ 162 $ 142 Plus: Additions 57 37 Less: Payments (16 ) (17 ) Ending Balance $ 203 $ 162 New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2010. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $168 million in 2010, $89 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2010 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2011, including $26 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at USSC assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic 79 Table of Contents downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active asbestoscases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional details concerning asbestos litigation see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel will vigorously defend these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Outlook for First Quarter 2010 We expect to report an overall operating loss in first quarter 2010 as gradually improving business conditions begin to be reflected in our operating results. We continue to experience improved order rates from several of our end markets. Automotive, service center, converter and appliance customer order rates in North America and Europe are at or near their highest levels in the last twelve months, while in other markets, such as construction, demand remains soft, but due to the low levels of inventory and the anticipated seasonal increases in activity at the end of the first quarter, our construction order book remains stable for both North America and Europe. A gradually strengthening economy should result in improvements in real demand, while apparent demand will likely be positively influenced by the restocking of the manufacturing supply chain, which we believe is under way. Relatively low levels of flat rolled product imports, if continued, are also expected to support improved order rates. Our Tubular operations are also continuing to experience favorable demand trends, most notably in alloy product at our welded operations in East Texas. At the same time, spot market prices are increasing across all of our segments in response to increased order rates and global raw material cost pressures. We continue to believe that the U.S. and global economies are in the early stages of a gradual recovery. While we are becoming more optimistic, primarily due to improvements we are starting to see in the manufacturing sector, we remain cautious in our outlook for end user demand. 80 Table of Contents Flat rolled results for first quarter 2010 are expected to improve from fourth quarter 2009. The benefits of increases in average realized prices and shipments, efficiencies from increased operating rates and reduced facility repair and maintenance costs are expected to be partially offset by the absence of approximately $55 million of favorable effects from LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Average realized prices are expected to increase from fourth quarter 2009 as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. Increases in our index based contract prices would be realized later as higher published market price assessments enter the index calculations for future periods. We are currently making steel at six of our seven North American steelmaking locations, with the exception being our Lake Erie Works, which represents approximately ten percent of our annual Flat rolled raw steel capability. We expect to complete maintenance work on our largest blast furnace, the #14 Blast Furnace at Gary Works, late in the first quarter and have all available capacity in operation at these six locations before the end of the quarter. Overall, raw steel capability utilization rates are expected to increase from the fourth quarter of 2009. First quarter 2010 results for USSE are expected to be comparable to fourth quarter 2009 as the benefits of increased shipments and operating efficiencies are expected to be offset by higher raw material costs. Euro based transaction prices are expected to be slightly higher than the fourth quarter as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to be lower due to foreign currency translation effects. We completed maintenance work on the #3 Blast Furnace at USSK in early February and we are currently operating all five of USSEs blast furnaces. We expect our Tubular operations to remain profitable in the first quarter. However, results are expected to decrease from the fourth quarter as the benefits of increased shipments are expected to be offset by increased costs as we continue to increase production to meet increased order rates, as well as the absence of $10 million of favorable fourth quarter items related to favorable effects of LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Seamless and welded tubular product prices are expected to improve throughout the quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to decrease as compared to the fourth quarter due to a higher proportion of welded tubular product shipments. We expect increased operating rates at all of our pipe facilities in the first quarter, most notably our welded pipe facility in East Texas. These expected increases should also benefit our Flat rolled operations that supply substrate requirements to our welded pipe facilities. Accounting Standards In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (FAS 167). FAS 167 is a revision to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, and amends the consolidation guidance for variable interest entities. Additionally, FAS 167 will require additional disclosures about involvement with variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure due to that involvement. FAS 167 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 167 will result in the deconsolidation of certain of our current variable interest entities, including, Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC due to the addition of the power criteria in paragraph 14 of FAS 167. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 810, Consolidations Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities, to incorporate FAS 167. In June 2009, the FASB issued FAS No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets (FAS 166). FAS 166 is a revision to FAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, and will require more information about transfer of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and enhanced disclosures when companies have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. Additionally, FAS 166 eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity. FAS 166 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 166 will result in any Receivables Purchase Agreement transactions being accounted for as secured borrowing transactions as of January 1, 2010. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, to incorporate FAS 166. See note 19 for further details of our accounts receivable facility. 81 Table of Contents Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage our market and exchange rate risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain commodity or currency transactions. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the transaction is settled. Once the transaction is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. For further information regarding derivative instruments see Notes 1 and 15 to the Financial Statements. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, through USSE and USSC, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the euro, the Serbian dinar and the Canadian dollar. U. S. Steel historically has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. U. S. Steel has not elected to use hedge accounting for these contracts. Foreign currency derivative instruments have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in net interest and other financial costs. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sales contracts for U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $185 million and $363 million, respectively). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2009 euro forward rates would result in a $19 million charge to income. The fair value of our derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs, which are defined as significant other observable inputs. The inputs used include quotes from counterparties that are corroborated with market sources. Future foreign currency impacts will depend upon changes in currencies, the extent to which we engage in derivatives transactions and the balance of the Intercompany Loan. The amount and timing of such borrowings or repayments on the Intercompany Loan will depend upon profits and cash flows of our international operations, future international investments and financing activities, all of which will be impacted by market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices and foreign exchange rates. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of our business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and zinc, tin and other nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for our products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel has made forward physical purchases to manage exposure to price risk related to the purchases of natural gas and certain non ferrous metals used in the production process. Historically, the forward physical purchase contracts for natural gas and nonferrous metals have qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 815. However, 82 Table of Contents due to reduced natural gas consumption in 2009, we net settled some of our excess natural gas purchase contracts for certain facilities. Therefore, the remaining contracts for natural gas at those facilities no longer met the exemption criteria and were therefore subject to mark to market accounting. As of December 31, 2009, there are no longer natural gas purchase contracts subject to mark to market accounting. Fixed price forward physical purchase contracts entered into for 2010 to partially manage our exposure to natural gas price risk qualify for the normal purchases normal sales exemption. The fair value of our natural gas derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs. The inputs used include forward prices derived from the New York Mercantile Exchange. A 10 percent decrease in natural gas prices for open derivative instruments as of December 31, 2009, would not result in a material charge to income. U. S. Steel held commodity contracts for natural gas that qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption with a total notional value of approximately $44 million at December 31, 2009. Total commodity contracts for natural gas represent approximately 12 percent of our expected North American natural gas requirements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of our non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent increase/decrease in year end 2009 and 2008 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase inFair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 26 $ 0 $ 23 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 4,004 $ 172 $ 2,650 $ 106 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008. (d) For additional information see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on the yield on our public debt where available or current borrowing rates available for financings with similar terms and maturities. For additional information see Note 16 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of our debt portfolio would unfavorably affect our results and cash flows only to the extent that we elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt included 200 million ($288 million) of borrowing under a floating rate revolving credit facility, the fair value of which is not affected by interest rate declines. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 83 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Many nations have adopted or are considering regulation of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States has passed a bill in the House of Representatives and a bill has been introduced in the Senate. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. Some foreign nations such as China and India are not aggressively pursuing regulation of CO2 and integrated steel producers in such countries may achieve a competitive advantage over U. S. Steel. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. U. S. Steel is subject to foreign currency exchange risks as a result of its European and Canadian operations. USSEs revenues are primarily in euros and its costs are primarily in U.S. dollars, euros and Serbian dinars. USSCs revenues and costs are denominated in both Canadian and U.S. dollars. In addition, the acquisition of USSC was funded from the United States and through the reinvestment of undistributed foreign earnings from USSE, creating intercompany monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities involved, which can impact income when they are remeasured at the end of each quarter. An $892 million U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary was the primary exposure at December 31, 2009. Facilities and Locations Flat rolled Except for the Fairfield pipe mill, the operating results of all the facilities within U. S. Steels integrated steel mills in North America are included in Flat rolled. These facilities include Gary Works, Great Lakes Works, Mon Valley Works, Granite City Works, Lake Erie Works, Fairfield Works and Hamilton Works. The operating results of U. S. Steels coke and iron ore pellet operations and many equity investees in North America are also included in Flat rolled. Gary Works, located in Gary, Indiana, has annual raw steel production capability of 7.5 million tons. Gary Works has three coke batteries, four blast furnaces, six steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit and four continuous slab casters. Gary Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells coke by products. Finishing facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, three temper mills, a double cold reduction line, four annealing facilities, two tin coating lines and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets and tin mill products. Gary Works also produces strip mill plate. The Midwest Plant and East Chicago Tin are operated as part of Gary Works. The Midwest Plant, located in Portage, Indiana, processes hot rolled bands and produces tin mill products and hot dip galvanized, cold rolled and electrical lamination sheets. Midwest facilities include a pickling line, two cold reduction mills, two temper mills, a double cold reduction mill, two annealing facilities, two hot dip galvanizing lines, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. 15 Table of Contents East Chicago Tin is located in East Chicago, Indiana and produces tin mill products. Facilities include a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, two annealing facilities, a temper mill, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. Great Lakes Works, located in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan, has annual raw steel production capability of 3.8 million tons. Great Lakes facilities include three blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, three annealing facilities, a temper mill, an electrolytic galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets. Mon Valley Works consists of the Edgar Thomson Plant, located in Braddock, Pennsylvania; the Irvin Plant, located in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania; the Fairless Plant, located in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania; and the Clairton Plant, located in Clairton, Pennsylvania. Mon Valley Works has annual raw steel production capability of 2.9 million tons. Facilities at the Edgar Thomson Plant include two blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit and a slab caster. Irvin Plant facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, a cold reduction mill, three annealing facilities, a temper mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. The Fairless Plant operates a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products from Mon Valley Works include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, as well as coke and coke by products produced at the Clairton Plant. The Clairton Plant is comprised of nine coke batteries. Almost all of the coke produced is consumed by U. S. Steel facilities or swapped with other domestic steel producers. Coke by products are sold to the chemicals and raw materials industries. Granite City Works, located in Granite City, Illinois, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.8 million tons. Granite Citys facilities include two coke batteries, two blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Granite City Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells coke by products. Principal products include hot rolled and coated sheets. Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) has constructed a coke plant to supply Granite City Works, which began operating in October 2009. We own and operate a newly constructed cogeneration facility that utilizes by products from the Gateway coke plant to generate heat and power. Lake Erie Works, located in Nanticoke, Ontario, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.6 million tons. Lake Erie Works facilities, which remains idled due to a work stoppage, include a coke battery, a blast furnace, two steelmaking vessels, a slab caster, a hot strip mill and three pickling lines. The pickling lines were acquired on August 29, 2008 and are included in Flat rolled results as of that date. Principal products include slabs and hot rolled sheets. Fairfield Works, located in Fairfield, Alabama, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.4 million tons. Fairfield Works facilities included in Flat rolled are a blast furnace, three steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, a slab caster, a rounds caster, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, two temper/skin pass mills, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, and steel rounds for Tubular. Hamilton Works, located in Hamilton, Ontario, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.3 million tons. Hamilton Works facilities include a coke battery, a blast furnace, three steelmaking vessels, a slab caster, a combination slab/bloom caster, a bar mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill and two hot dip galvanizing lines and a galvanizing/galvannealing line. Principal products include slabs and cold rolled and coated sheets. We have iron ore pellet operations located at Mt. Iron (Minntac) and Keewatin (Keetac), Minnesota with annual iron ore pellet production capability of 22.4 million tons. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, these operations produced 8.5 million, 21.3 million and 20.8 million net tons of iron ore pellets, respectively. On February 1, 2010, USSC sold its 44.6 percent interest in the Wabush Mines Joint Venture (Wabush) for approximately $58 million. Wabush owns and operates iron ore mining and pellet facilities in Newfoundland and Labrador and Quebec, Canada. 16 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has a 14.7 percent ownership interest in Hibbing Taconite Company (Hibbing), which is based in Hibbing, Minnesota. Hibbings rated annual production capability is 9.1 million tons of iron ore pellets, of which our share is about 1.3 million tons, reflecting our ownership interest. Our share of 2009, 2008 and 2007 production was 0.3 million, 1.4 million and 0.2 million tons, respectively. We have a 15 percent ownership interest in Tilden Mining Company (Tilden), which is based in Ishpeming, Michigan. Tildens rated annual production capability is 8.7 million tons of iron ore pellets, of which our share is about 1.3 million tons, reflecting our ownership interest. Our share of 2009 production was a minimal amount and our share of 2008 and 2007 production was 1.2 million and 0.1 million tons, respectively. U. S. Steel owns a Research and Technology Center located in Munhall, Pennsylvania where we carry out a wide range of applied research, development and technical support functions. U. S. Steel also owns an automotive technical center in Troy, Michigan. This facility brings automotive sales, service, distribution and logistics services, product technology and applications research into one location. Much of U. S. Steels work in developing new grades of steel to meet the demands of automakers for high strength, light weight and formable materials is carried out at this location. U. S. Steel participates in a number of additional joint ventures that are included in Flat rolled, most of which are conducted through subsidiaries or other separate legal entities. All of these joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method. The significant joint ventures and other investments are described below. For information regarding joint ventures and other investments, see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel and POSCO of South Korea participate in a 50 50 joint venture, USS POSCO Industries (USS POSCO), located in Pittsburg, California. The joint venture markets high quality sheet and tin mill products, principally in the western United States. USS POSCO produces cold rolled sheets, galvanized sheets, tin plate and tin free steel from hot bands principally provided by U. S. Steel and POSCO, which each provide about 50 percent of its requirements. USS POSCOs annual production capability is approximately 1.5 million tons. U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. of Japan participate in a 50 50 joint venture, PRO TEC Coating Company (PRO TEC). PRO TEC owns and operates two hot dip galvanizing lines in Leipsic, Ohio, which primarily serve the automotive industry. PRO TECs annual production capability is approximately 1.2 million tons. U. S. Steel supplies PRO TEC with all of its requirements of cold rolled sheets and markets all of its products. U. S. Steel and Severstal North America, Inc. participate in Double Eagle Steel Coating Company (DESCO), a 50 50 joint venture which operates an electrogalvanizing facility located in Dearborn, Michigan. The facility coats sheet steel with free zinc or zinc alloy coatings, primarily for use in the automotive industry. DESCO processes steel supplied by each partner and each partner markets the steel it has processed by DESCO. DESCOs annual production capability is approximately 870,000 tons. U. S. Steel and ArcelorMittal participate in the Double G Coatings Company, L.P. 50 50 joint venture (Double G), a hot dip galvanizing and Galvalume&reg; facility located near Jackson, Mississippi, which primarily serves the construction industry. Double G processes steel supplied by each partner and each partner markets the steel it has processed by Double G. Double Gs annual production capability is approximately 315,000 tons. U. S. Steel and Worthington Industries, Inc. (Worthington Industries) participate in Worthington Specialty Processing (Worthington), a joint venture with locations in Jackson, Canton and Taylor, Michigan in which U. S. Steel has a 49 percent interest. Worthington slits, cuts to length and presses blanks from steel coils to desired specifications. Worthingtons annual production capability is approximately 890,000 tons. USSC and ArcelorMittal Dofasco, Inc. participate in Baycoat Limited Partnership (Baycoat), a 50 50 joint venture located in Hamilton, Ontario. Baycoat applies a variety of paint finishes to flat rolled steel coils. Baycoats annual production capability is approximately 280,000 tons. D.C. Chrome Limited, a 50 50 joint venture between USSC and The Court Group of Companies Limited, operates a plant in Stony Creek, Ontario which textures and chromium plates work rolls for Hamilton Works and for other customers, and grinds and chromes steel shafts used in manlifts. 17 Table of Contents Chrome Deposit Corporation (CDC), a 50 50 joint venture between U. S. Steel and Court Holdings, reconditions finishing work rolls, which require grinding, chrome plating and or texturing. The rolls are used on rolling mills to provide superior finishes on steel sheets. CDC has seven locations across the United States, with all locations near major steel mills. Feralloy Processing Company (FPC), a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Feralloy Corporation, converts coiled hot strip mill plate into sheared and flattened plates for shipment to customers. U. S. Steel has a 49 percent interest. The plant, located in Portage, Indiana, has a temper mill linked to a cut to length leveling line. The line provides stress free, leveled product with a superior surface finish. FPC provides processing services to the joint venture partners and other steel consumers and service centers. FPCs annual production capability is approximately 275,000 tons. U. S. Steel, along with Feralloy Mexico, S.R.L. de C.V. and Mitsui & Co. (USA), Inc., participates in a joint venture, Acero Prime, S.R.L. de CV (Acero Prime). U. S. Steel has a 40 percent interest. Acero Prime operates in Mexico with facilities in San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, and a leased warehouse in Toluca. Acero Prime provides slitting, warehousing and logistical services. Acero Primes annual slitting capability is approximately 385,000 tons. USSE USSE consists of USSK and its subsidiaries and USSS. USSK operates an integrated facility in Koice, Slovakia, which has annual raw steel production capability of 5.0 million tons. This facility has two coke batteries, three blast furnaces, four steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, two dual strand casters, a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, three annealing facilities, a temper mill, a temper/double cold reduction mill, three hot dip galvanizing lines, two tin coating lines, three dynamo lines, a color coating line and two spiral welded pipe mills. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, tin mill products and spiral welded pipe. USSK also has facilities for manufacturing heating radiators and refractory ceramic materials. In addition, USSK has a research laboratory which in conjunction with our Research and Technology Center supports efforts in cokemaking, electrical steels, design and instrumentation, and ecology. USSS has an integrated plant in Smederevo, Serbia which has annual raw steel production capability of 2.4 million tons. Facilities at this plant include two blast furnaces, three steelmaking vessels, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, a cold reduction mill, two annealing facilities, a temper mill and a temper/double cold reduction mill. Other facilities include a tin mill in Sabac with one tin coating line, a limestone mine in Kucevo and a river port in Smederevo, all located in Serbia. Principal products include hot rolled and cold rolled sheets and tin mill products. Tubular Tubular manufactures seamless and welded oil country tubular goods (OCTG), standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing. Seamless products are produced on a mill located at Fairfield Works in Fairfield, Alabama, and on two mills located in Lorain, Ohio. The Fairfield mill has annual production capability of 750,000 tons and is supplied with steel rounds exclusively from Fairfield Works. The Fairfield mill has the capability to produce outer diameter (O.D.) sizes from 4.5 to 9.625 inches and has quench and temper, hydrotester, threading and coupling and inspection capabilities. The Lorain mills have combined annual production capability of 780,000 tons and use steel rounds supplied by Fairfield Works and external sources. Lorain #3 Mill has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 10.125 to 26 inches and has quench and temper, hydrotester, cutoff and inspection capabilities. Lorain #4 Mill has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 1.9 to 4.5 inches and has cut to length capabilities and uses Tubular Services in Houston for finishing. Texas Operations manufactures welded OCTG, standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing products. Texas Operations #1 Mill has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 7 to 16 inches. Texas Operations #2 Mill has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 1.088 to 7.15 inches. Both mills have quench and temper, hydrotester, 18 Table of Contents threading and coupling and inspection capabilities. Bellville Operations manufactures welded tubular products primarily for OCTG. Bellville Operations has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 2.375 to 4.5 inches and has limited hydrotester and cutoff capabilities. Texas Operations and Bellville Operations have combined annual production capability of 1.0 million tons and use hot rolled products from Flat rolleds facilities. Welded products are also produced on a mill located in McKeesport, Pennsylvania, which is operated by a third party operator. The McKeesport mill has annual production capability of 315,000 tons and processes hot rolled bands from Mon Valley Works and other U. S. Steel locations. This mill has the capability to produce, hydrotest, cut to length and inspect O.D. sizes from 8.625 to 20 inches. Wheeling Machine Products supplies couplings used to connect individual sections of oilfield casing and tubing. It produces sizes ranging from 2.375 to 20 inches at three locations: Pine Bluff, Arkansas, Hughes Springs, Texas and Houston, Texas. Tubular Processing Services, located in Houston, Texas, provides thermal treating and end finishing services for oilfield production tubing. Tubular Threading and Inspection Services, also located in Houston, Texas, provides threading, inspection and storage services to the OCTG market. Fintube Technologies (Fintube), located in Tulsa, Oklahoma and Monterey, Mexico, manufactures specialty tubular products used in heat recovery technology applications. Fintube has a welded tube production mill, finning operations and an engineered products division. U. S. Steel also has a 50 percent ownership interest in Apolo Tubulars S.A. (Apolo), a Brazilian supplier of welded casing, tubing, line pipe and other tubular products. Apolos annual production capability is approximately 150,000 tons. In April 2007, U. S. Steel, POSCO and SeAH Steel Corporation, a Korean manufacturer of tubular products, formed United Spiral Pipe LLC to design, engineer and construct a manufacturing facility with annual production capability of 300,000 tons of spiral welded tubular products. U. S. Steel and POSCO each hold a 35 percent ownership interest in the joint venture, with the remaining 30 percent ownership interest being held by SeAH. The facility was commissioned in late 2009 and began operations in early 2010. Other Businesses U. S. Steels Other Businesses include transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations and engineering consulting services. On January 31, 2009, we completed the sale of a majority of the operating assets of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E) to a subsidiary of Canadian National Railway Company. Proceeds from the sale were approximately $300 million and U. S. Steel recorded a net gain of approximately $97 million, net of a $10 million pension curtailment loss, in the first quarter of 2009. The retained portion of EJ&E has been renamed Gary Railway Company. See Note 6 to the Financial Statements. In addition to Gary Railway Company in Indiana, U. S. Steel owns Lake Terminal Railroad Company in Ohio; Union Railroad Company and McKeesport Connecting Railroad Company in Pennsylvania; Birmingham Southern Railroad Company, Fairfield Southern Company, Inc., Mobile River Terminal Company, and Warrior and Gulf Navigation Company, all located in Alabama; Delray Connecting Railroad Company in Michigan and Texas & Northern Railroad Company in Texas; all of which comprise U. S. Steels transportation business. U. S. Steel owns, develops and manages various real estate assets, which include approximately 200,000 acres of surface rights primarily in Alabama, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota and Pennsylvania. In addition, U. S. Steel participates in joint ventures that are developing real estate projects in Alabama, Maryland and Illinois. U. S. Steel also owns approximately 4,000 acres of land in Ontario, Canada, which could potentially be sold or developed. U. S. Steel has a 38 percent ownership interest in Leeds Retail Center, LLC, an entity established for the development of a 495,000 square foot retail outlet mall in Leeds, Alabama. 19 Table of Contents Met Chem Canada Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of U. S. Steel, is a company providing engineering consulting services in the mining and mineral processing sectors. Raw Materials and Energy As an integrated producer, U. S. Steels primary raw materials are iron units in the form of iron ore pellets and sinter ore, carbon units in the form of coal and coke (which is produced from coking coal) and steel scrap. U. S. Steels raw materials supply strategy consists of acquiring and expanding captive sources of these primary raw materials and entering into long term supply contracts. The amounts of such raw materials needed to produce a ton of steel will fluctuate based upon the specifications of the final steel products, the quality of raw materials and, to a lesser extent, differences among steel producing equipment. In broad terms, U. S. Steel estimates that it consumes about 1.4 tons of coal to produce one ton of coke and that it consumes approximately 0.4 tons of coke, 0.2 tons of steel scrap (40 percent of which is internally generated) and 1.3 tons of iron ore pellets to produce one ton of raw steel. At normal operating levels, we also consume approximately 5 mmbtus of natural gas per ton shipped. While we believe that these estimates are useful for planning purposes, substantial variations occur. They are presented in order to give a general sense of raw material and energy consumption related to steel production. Iron Ore The iron ore facilities at Minntac and Keetac contain an estimated 752 million short tons of recoverable reserves and our share of recoverable reserves at the Hibbing and Tilden joint ventures is 65 million short tons. Recoverable reserves are defined as the tons of product that can be used internally or delivered to a customer after considering mining and beneficiation or preparation losses. Minntac and Keetacs annual capability and our share of annual capability for the Hibbing and Tilden joint ventures total 25 million tons. With these facilities and amounts under long term supply contracts, the Flat rolled segment currently has the capability to supply all of its annual iron ore requirements at normal operating levels. USSE purchases substantially all of its iron ore requirements from outside sources, but has also received iron ore from U. S. Steels iron ore facilities in North America. We believe that supplies of iron ore adequate to meet USSEs needs are available at competitive market prices. The main sources of iron ore for USSE are Russia and Ukraine, with some coming from Brazil. Coking Coal All of U. S. Steels coal requirements for our cokemaking facilities are purchased from outside sources. U. S. Steel has entered into multi year contracts for substantially all of Flat rolleds coking coal requirements. Prices for these North American contracts for 2010 are set at what we believe are competitive market prices. Prices in the out years will be negotiated within set collars around a base price or on an annual basis at prevailing market prices. In Europe, U. S. Steel has entered into contracts for most of USSEs coking coal requirements for 2010. Prices for these European contracts are negotiated at defined intervals (no less than quarterly) with regional suppliers. We believe that supplies of coking coal adequate to meet our needs are available from outside sources at competitive market prices. The main sources of coking coal for Flat rolled are the United States and Canada; and for USSE include Poland, the Czech Republic, the United States, Canada, Russia and Ukraine. 20 Table of Contents Coke In North America, the Flat rolled segment operates cokemaking facilities at the Clairton Plant of Mon Valley Works, Gary Works, Granite City Works, Hamilton Works and Lake Erie Works. In Europe, the USSE segment operates cokemaking facilities at USSK. Blast furnace injection of coal, natural gas and self generated coke oven gas is also used at certain Flat rolled and USSE facilities to reduce coke usage. The increase in coke production in 2008 was mainly due to the inclusion of production at Lake Erie Works and Hamilton Works for the entire year following the USSC acquisition in 2007. The decrease in coke production in 2009 resulted from the temporary idling of cokemaking facilities at the Clairton Plant, Granite City Works, Hamilton Works and Lake Erie Works for part of the year as well as the shut down of three coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. Production had been decreasing over the last several years due mainly to the shut down of one of the coke batteries at Gary Works in 2005. Over the next five years, as some of our North American coke batteries approach the end of their expected useful lives, our production capability is likely to decrease absent additional investment in coke or coke substitute production facilities. We have taken a number of steps to ensure long term access to high quality coke for our blast furnaces. We continue to evaluate plans for new coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. We entered into a 15 year coke supply agreement with Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) in connection with its newly constructed 651,000 ton per year heat recovery coke plant which began operating in the fourth quarter of 2009 and is located at Granite City Works. Also, we continue to evaluate plans to construct one or more facilities utilizing state of the art technology to produce a carbon alloy material that would be used as a coke substitute. With Flat rolleds cokemaking facilities and the Gateway long term supply agreement, it currently has the capability to supply approximately 80 percent of its annual coke requirements at normal operating levels. Depending on production levels, we may purchase additional coke on the open market. To the extent that it is necessary or appropriate considering existing needs and or applicable transportation costs, coke is purchased from or swapped with suppliers or other end users. USSEs cokemaking facilities currently have the capability to supply approximately 60% of its annual coke requirements at normal operating levels. The remainder of USSEs needs is purchased from outside sources. The main sources of coke for USSE in 2010 are expected to be Poland, Ukraine, Russia, Bosnia, Hungary and the Czech Republic. Limestone All of Flat rolleds limestone requirements are purchased from outside sources. We believe that supplies of limestone adequate to meet Flat rolleds needs are readily available from outside sources at competitive market prices. The majority of USSEs limestone requirements are purchased from outside sources with a portion of USSSs raw limestone requirements coming from a limestone mine under our direct control. We believe that supplies of limestone adequate to meet USSEs needs are available from outside sources at competitive market prices. Zinc and Tin We believe that supplies of zinc and tin required to fulfill the requirements for Flat rolled and USSE are available from outside sources at competitive market prices. We routinely execute fixed price forward physical purchase contracts for a portion of our expected business needs in order to manage our exposure to the volatility of the zinc and tin markets. 21 Table of Contents Steel Scrap and Other Materials We believe that supplies of steel scrap and other alloying and coating materials required to fulfill the requirements for Flat rolled and USSE are available from outside sources at competitive market prices. Generally, approximately 40 percent of our steel scrap requirements is internally generated through normal operations. Natural Gas All of U. S. Steels natural gas requirements are purchased from outside sources. We believe that supplies adequate to meet Flat rolleds needs are available at competitive market prices. In order to partially manage our exposure to natural gas price increases as it relates to customers with fixed priced contracts as well as electricity costs from a generating facility located at one of our facilities, we routinely execute fixed price forward physical purchase contracts for natural gas. About 60 percent of our natural gas purchases in Flat rolled are based on bids solicited on a monthly basis from various vendors; the remainder is made daily or with fixed price forward physical purchase contracts. We believe that supplies adequate to meet USSEs needs are normally available at competitive market prices. However, both USSK and USSS experienced a supply curtailment of more than ten days in January 2009 related to Russias suspension of natural gas shipments to Europe. The supply from Russia and the transmission through Ukraine and the associated political tension may impact supply availability. Both Flat rolled and USSE use self generated coke oven and blast furnace gas to reduce consumption of natural gas. Industrial Gases U. S. Steel purchases its industrial gas requirements under long term contracts with various suppliers. Commercial Sales of Product U. S. Steel characterizes our sales as contract if sold pursuant to an agreement with defined volume and pricing and a duration of longer than three months, and as spot if sold without a defined volume and pricing agreement. In 2009 approximately 60 percent, 30 percent and 10 percent of sales by Flat rolled, USSE and Tubular, respectively, were contract sales. Some contract pricing agreements include fixed price while others are adjusted periodically based upon published prices of steel products or cost components. U. S. Steel does not consider sales backlog to be a meaningful measure since volume commitments in most contracts are based on each customers specific periodic requirements. Environmental Matters U. S. Steel maintains a comprehensive environmental policy overseen by the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of the U. S. Steel Board of Directors. The Environmental Affairs organization has the responsibility to ensure that U. S. Steels operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that are in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The Executive Environmental Committee, which is comprised of officers of U. S. Steel, is charged with reviewing our overall performance with various environmental compliance programs. Also, U. S. Steel, largely through the American Iron and Steel Institute, the Canadian Steel Producers Association, the World Steel Association and European Confederation of Iron and Steel Industries (Eurofer), is involved in the promotion of cost effective environmental strategies through the development of appropriate air, water, waste and climate change laws and regulations at the local, state, national and international levels. U. S. Steels businesses in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act (CAA) with respect to air emissions; the Clean Water Act (CWA) with respect to water discharges; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and 22 Table of Contents disposal; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances. In addition, all states where U. S. Steel operates have similar laws dealing with the same matters. These laws are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable due in part to the fact that certain implementing regulations for these environmental laws have not yet been promulgated and in certain instances are undergoing revision. These environmental laws and regulations, particularly the CAA, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. USSC is subject to the environmental laws of Canada, which are comparable to environmental standards in the United States. Environmental regulation in Canada is an area of shared responsibility between the federal government and the provincial governments, which in turn delegate certain matters to municipal governments. Federal environmental statutes include the federal Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 and the Fisheries Act. Various provincial statutes regulate environmental matters such as the release and remediation of hazardous substances; waste storage, treatment and disposal; and air emissions. As in the United States, Canadian environmental laws (federal, provincial and local) are undergoing revisions and becoming more stringent. USSK is subject to the environmental laws of Slovakia and the EU. A related law of the EU commonly known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, Regulation 1907/2006) requires the registration of certain substances that are produced in the EU or imported into the EU. USSK pre registered various substances during the six month pre registration period that ended November 30, 2008, both on its own behalf and on behalf of U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries that may be shipping products into the EU. USSK is compliant with REACH and intends to register its substances by the applicable deadlines to remain in compliance and be able to continue its businesses without material change. USSS is subject to the environmental laws of Serbia. Under the terms of the acquisition in 2003, USSS is responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study in June 2004, which was submitted to the Government of Serbia. During 2008 and 2009, USSS spent approximately $50 million to reduce air particulate emissions and undertake other environmental projects pursuant to an agreement with the Serbian government. Many nations, including all where we operate, have or are considering the regulation of CO2 emissions. International negotiations to supplement or replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol are ongoing. Regulation of CO2 emissions is relevant to the steel industry and U. S. Steel. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The European Union has established greenhouse gas regulations. Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions as discussed below. In the United States, the House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act (also known as the Waxman Markey Bill) on June 26, 2009. Similar legislation is under consideration by the Senate in the form of a bill proposed by Senators Boxer and Kerry on September 30, 2009. These bills would establish a national cap and trade program (to be phased in beginning in 2012) that would require entities emitting greenhouse gases (or in some instances the producers of fuels that would result in such emissions) to present allowances that account for each ton of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emitted, subject to yearly national caps on overall emissions from covered sources. The bills include provisions that would grant limited relief, including the allocation of free allowances, for qualifying energy intensive and trade sensitive industries, for which iron and steel producers should qualify. It is uncertain when the Senate will act on these matters. If this or similar legislation is adopted, it could have far ranging economic and operational consequences for U. S. Steel. It is impossible to estimate the timing of final legislation or its impact on U. S. Steel, although it could be significant. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. The EPA has classified CO2 as a harmful gas. The EPA has implemented a new greenhouse gas emission inventory and reporting requirement for all facilities emitting 25,000 metric tons or more per year of CO2e greenhouse gases. The regulation requires facilities to collect information on CO2e and report emissions to the EPA starting in January of 2011, covering the 2010 calendar year. It is expected that most U. S. Steel facilities will be required to comply with the new reporting requirements. Since it was first proposed by the EPA, U. S. Steel has been undertaking preparations for meeting this requirement, and is evaluating the cost of compliance. 23 Table of Contents The EPA has also proposed new permitting requirements for facilities emitting 25,000 metric tons or more per year of CO2 based on requirements of the CAA. This proposal will be subject to public comment before being finalized. The EPA expects to have the new regulation in place by the first quarter of 2010. Evaluating the cost of compliance with this proposed regulation is not possible until the EPA has addressed all public comments. To comply with the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC) has created an Emissions Trading System (ETS). Under the ETS, the EC establishes CO2 emissions limits for every EU member state and approves grants of CO2 emission allowances to individual emitting facilities pursuant to national allocation plans that are proposed by each of the member states. The allowances can be bought and sold by emitting facilities to cover the quantities of CO2 they emit in their operations. In July 2008, following approval by the EC of Slovakias national allocation plan for the 2008 2012 trading period (NAP II), Slovakia granted USSK more CO2 allowances per year than USSK received for the 2005 to 2007 trading period. Based on actual carbon emissions to date, we believe that USSK will have sufficient allowances for the NAP II period without purchasing additional allowances. During 2009, USSK entered into transactions to sell and swap a portion of our emissions allowances and recognized $36 million of gains related to these transactions. On April 26, 2007, Canadas federal government announced an Action Plan to Reduce Greenhouse Gases and Air Pollution (the Plan). The Plan would set mandatory reduction targets on all major greenhouse gas producing industries to achieve an absolute reduction of 150 megatonnes in greenhouse gas emissions from 2006 levels by 2020. On March 10, 2008, Canadas federal government published details of its Regulatory Framework for Industrial Greenhouse Gas Emissions (the Framework). The Plan and the Framework provide that facilities existing in 2004 will be required to cut their greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 18 percent below their 2006 baseline by 2010, with a further two percent reduction in each following year. The Framework provided that newer and future facilities would be subject to phased in two percent annual emissions intensity reduction obligations and clean fuel standards. Companies will be able to choose the most cost effective way to meet their targets from a range of options which include carbon trading, offsets and credit for early action (between 1992 and 2006). The Framework effectively exempts fixed process emissions of CO2, which could exclude certain iron and steel producing CO2 emissions from mandatory reductions. More recently, the federal government has indicated that it may reconsider its proposed intensity based approach in light of potential U.S. legislation which may impose emission caps and import duties on countries which do not have a comparable regime. On June 12, 2009, Canadas federal government released for comment two draft guides related to the establishment of an Offset System in Canada. These draft documents propose rules and provide guidance on the requirements and processes to create offset credits and the requirements and processes to verify the eligible greenhouse gas reductions achieved from an offset project. Canadas federal government has stated that, once in place, the Offset System will establish tradable credits and encourage cost effective domestic greenhouse gas reductions in areas that will not be covered by planned federal greenhouse gas regulations. In December 2007, the Ontario government announced its own Action Plan on Climate Change (the Ontario Action Plan). The Ontario Action Plan targets reductions in Ontario greenhouse gas emissions of six percent below 1990 levels by 2014, 15 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 and 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. In December 2008, Ontario launched a consultation process towards the development of a cap and trade system to be implemented as early as 2010. In May 2009, Ontario released proposed amendments to the Environmental Protection Act that would provide, if passed, the regulatory authority to set up a greenhouse gas cap and trade system. At the same time, the Ontario government also released a discussion paper, Moving Forward: A Greenhouse Gas Cap and Trade System for Ontario which (i) helps clarify the cap and trade approach being considered in Ontario and the different options for elements of the approach and (ii) seeks stakeholder input on various elements of the proposed cap and trade system. Comments were accepted until July 26, 2009. The Ontario government released a draft Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting regulation for public comment on October 7, 2009. The reporting regulation is intended to provide the foundation for Ontario to implement a cap and trade program for greenhouse gases. The Ontario government has indicated that it plans to develop a cap and trade system that aligns with other systems developing in North America, including in the United States. U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations which in recent years have been mainly for process changes in order to meet CAA obligations and similar obligations in Europe and Canada. In the future, additional 24 Table of Contents expenditures will be required to comply with CO2 emission requirements. Since it is difficult to predict what requirements will ultimately be imposed in the United States and Canada, it is difficult to estimate the likely impact on U. S. Steel but it could be substantial. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that our major North American and many European integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills, some foreign steel producers (particularly in developing economies such as China) and producers of materials which compete with steel, all of which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In particular, if the final requirements do not recognize the fact that the integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions, our competitive position relative to mini mills will be adversely impacted and our competitive position regarding producers in developing nations, such as China and India, will be harmed unless such nations require comensurate reductions in CO2 emissions. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to our prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Many of our competitors have fewer historical liabilities. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Air The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a federally mandated operating permit program and civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. The CAA requires, among other things, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants through the development and promulgation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) Standards. The EPA has developed various industry specific MACT standards pursuant to this requirement. The CAA requires EPA to promulgate regulations establishing emission standards for each category of Hazardous Air Pollutants. EPA must also conduct risk assessments on each source category that is already subject to MACT standards and determine if additional standards are needed to reduce residual risks. The principal impact of the MACT standards on U. S. Steel operations includes those that are specific to cokemaking, ironmaking, steelmaking and iron ore processing. The emission limitations for ironmaking and steelmaking sources could become more stringent if EPAs residual risk analysis indicates that additional controls are necessary. EPA is required to complete this residual risk analysis by 2011. The impact of this risk analysis and any subsequent changes cannot be estimated at this time. U. S. Steels cokemaking facilities are subject to two categories of MACT standards. The first category applies to pushing and quenching. EPA is required to make a risk based determination for pushing and quenching emissions and determine whether additional emissions reductions are necessary from this process by 2011. EPA has yet to publish or propose any residual risk standards from these operations; therefore, the impact cannot be estimated at this time. The second category of MACT standards applying to coke facilities applies to emissions from charging, coke oven battery tops and coke oven doors. With regard to these standards, U. S. Steel chose to install more stringent controls than MACT on some of its batteries, called Lowest Achievable Emissions Reductions (LAER). Such LAER batteries are not required to comply with certain residual risk standards until 2020. Because the scope of these anticipated changes are distant and relatively uncertain, the magnitude of the impact of these anticipated changes cannot be estimated at this time. U. S. Steels iron ore processing operations are subject to the Taconite Iron Ore Processing MACT standards. These standards may change if EPA revises the MACT standards in response to a petition filed by an environmental advocacy group. In addition, EPA will make a risk based determination for taconite iron ore processing and determine whether additional emissions reductions are necessary from this process by 2011. EPA has yet to publish or propose any residual risk standards from these operations; therefore, the impact of any changes cannot be estimated at this time. 25 Table of Contents The CAA also requires the EPA to develop and implement National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for criteria pollutants, which include, among others, particulate matter and ozone. In 1997, EPA established 24 hour and annual standards for fine particles that are less than 2.5 micrometers in size and in 2006, EPA tightened the 24 hour standard but retained the annual standard. These standards were challenged and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, in American Farm Bureau Federation and National Pork Producers Council et al. v. EPA, 559 F. 3rd 512 (D.C. Cir. 2009), remanded the annual standards to the EPA for further consideration but allowed the 2006 24 hour standard to remain in effect. States are still required to demonstrate compliance with the 1997 fine particle standard by April 2010, with a possible extension to April 2015, but the annual standard could change based upon the remand noted above. If the standard is changed, states will be required to modify their state implementation plans (SIPs) to meet the new standard. On December 22, 2008, EPA designated areas in which U. S. Steel operates as nonattainment and unclassified/attainment for the 2006 fine particle standard. SIPs for the 2006 24 hour standard are due December 14, 2012, with attainment demonstrations with the 2006 standard expected to be made by 2014 or 2019, with extensions. It is anticipated that EPAs fine particle programs could result in significant costs to U. S. Steel. While the SIPs for the 1997 (current) annual standard were due in April 2008, many states and local agencies in which U. S. Steel facilities are located have not yet or are just now proposing SIPs. U. S. Steel is currently reviewing these drafts and proposed SIPs, but the impacts of the anticipated regulations cannot be determined at this time. Furthermore, it is impossible to estimate the magnitude of any costs associated with the SIPs for the 2006 24 hour standard or the remand of the annual standard since the state and federal agencies are still developing regulations for the programs and implementation for the 2006 24 hour standard. Demonstrating attainment with the 2006 24 hour standard is not expected until sometime between 2014 and 2019 and no new standard or associated timeline has been established for the annual standard. Effective May 2008, EPA lowered its ground level ozone air quality standards, which could affect sources of nitrogen oxide and volatile organic compounds, including coke plants, and iron and steel facilities. EPA is required to issue final designations of attainment, nonattainment and unclassifiable areas no later than March 2010 unless there is insufficient information to make these designation decisions. In that case, EPA will issue designations no later than March 2011. States must submit SIPs outlining how they will reduce pollution to meet the standards by a date that is no later than three years after EPAs final designations. If EPA issues designations in 2010 or 2011, these plans would be due no later than 2013 or 2014, respectively. States are required to meet the standards by deadlines that may vary based on the severity of the problem in the area. It is anticipated that the ozone NAAQS revisions could result in significant costs to U. S. Steel; however, it is impossible to estimate the magnitude of these costs at this time since the implementation dates are unknown and distant. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts our operations to be in compliance with such permits. For additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste 26 Table of Contents disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the former Duluth Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred and it is possible that additional sites will be identified that require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had approximately 24,000 employees in North America and approximately 19,000 in Europe. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) that expire in September 2012. The 2008 CBAs resulted in wage increases ranging from $0.65 to $1.00 per hour as of the effective date. Each subsequent September 1 thereafter during the contract term, employees will receive a four percent wage increase. The 2008 CBAs also require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance during the contract period. In early 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the 2009 contribution until 2012. The 2008 CBAs also provide for pension and other benefit enhancements for both current employees and retirees (see Notes 17 and 20 to the Financial Statements). A small number of workers at these facilities, as well as workers at our transportation operations are covered by agreements with the USW or other unions that have varying expiration dates. At USSC the collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Lake Erie Works has expired and a successor agreement has not been reached. The collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Hamilton Works expires in July 2010. All of the agreements in North America contain no strike clauses. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in March 2012. Represented employees at USSS are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in December 2012. Wage increases have been agreed to for all years for both USSE agreements. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. We post our annual report on Form 10 K, our quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, our proxy statement and our interactive data files to our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also post all press releases and earnings releases to our web site. 27 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles, our Code of Ethical Business Conduct and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation & Organization Committee and the Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 2998). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site or the documents referred to in the immediately preceeding paragraph into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income from operations by reportable segment and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 3 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary (Unaudited) on pages F 63 and F 64. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Current Global Recession All segments of our business have been impacted by the global recession and such impacts have created certain new risks and have also affected the other risks set forth below. U. S. Steel and its end product markets continue to be impacted by the global recession. For full year 2009, U. S. Steel reported a net loss of $1,401 million, or $10.42 per diluted share. Raw steel production in our North American Flat rolled segment averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 79 percent and 83 percent of cabability in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and our European USSE segment averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 86 percent and 92 percent of capability in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our Tubular segment shipped 657 thousand tons in 2009 as compared to 1.95 million tons in 2008. Despite some signs of economic recovery, we expect to report an overall operating loss for the first quarter of 2010. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which experienced substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels and this has led to a substantial decrease in oil and gas drilling activity, which has resulted in lower customer demand for the products of our Tubular segment. U. S. Steels operating levels will remain at depressed levels until our customers demand increases. In addition to reduced demand in our end product markets, we believe that some of our customers are experiencing difficulty in obtaining credit or maintaining their ability to qualify for trade credit insurance, resulting in a further reduction in purchases and an increase in our credit risk exposure. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. In addition, the expiration of governmental stimulus programs may have a negative impact on the levels of customer demand. In response to the global recession, we announced that we had substantially reduced our planned capital expenditures for 2009 to conserve liquidity. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long 28 Table of Contents term strategic importance, as we focused on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Unless the current economic situation continues to improve, we may have to delay investments of long term strategic importance. It could also become more expensive to complete these deferred investments at a later date. Moreover, delaying these long term strategic investments could have a negative impact on our cost structure and market position. U. S. Steel is incurring and will continue to incur facility carrying costs when production capacity is temporarily idled and increased costs as we resume production at idled facilities. During 2009, U. S. Steel temporarily idled significant production facilities in all three of our segments in response to economic conditions and customer demand. We continue to incur certain facility carrying costs which could not be eliminated even though the facilities were idled, resulting in higher unit production costs for all three segments. For example, during 2009 in our North American Flat rolled and Tubular segments, we incurred approximately $735 million and $80 million of idled facility costs, respectively. Furthermore, we transferred raw materials to operating locations, and delayed discretionary repair and maintenance and other expenditures while facilities were temporarily idled to minimize costs and preserve liquidity during the idling period. As we restart facilities, we are incurring increased costs to replenish raw material inventories, prepare the previously idled facilities for operation, perform the required repair and maintenance, complete capital projects and prepare employees to safely return to work and resume production responsibilities. U. S. Steel may need to substantially increase working capital when market conditions and order levels improve. As our business deteriorated, we reduced working capital by $1.3 billion in 2009. When market conditions and order levels improve we may have to increase our working capital substantially, as it will take several months for new orders to be translated into cash receipts. In general, availability under our 2007 five year $750 million revolving credit facility, which was amended and restated in 2009, (Amended Credit Agreement) is limited to a monthly borrowing base of certain eligible domestic inventory and availability under our Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) is limited to eligible receivables. We may not have sufficient eligible inventory and receivables to borrow the amounts we need. U. S. Steel may face increased risks of customer and supplier defaults. There is an increased risk of insolvency and other credit related issues of our customers and suppliers, including their need to increase working capital as their businesses improve. We believe some of our customers and suppliers may not have sufficient credit available to them, which could delay payments from customers, result in increased customer defaults and cause our suppliers to delay filling, or to be unable to fill, our needs. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity investees are also being affected by the current global recession. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity affiliates are also engaged in the production of steelmaking raw materials and finishing of flat rolled and tubular products. As such they face many of the same issues we do. Since these entities are smaller than U. S. Steel, they may have fewer resources available to them to respond to the current global recession. Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is highly cyclical, and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow, especially during periods of economic weakness. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in regional markets. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess global supply, which has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. 29 Table of Contents Rapidly growing supply in China and other developing economies may grow faster than real demand in those economies, which may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years, steel consumption in China and other developing economies has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by rapidly increasing steel production capability in those countries and published reports state that further capacity increases are likely. Steel production, especially in China, has expanded rapidly and appears to be well in excess of Chinas home market demand. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any excess Chinese supply could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if this excess and subsidized production is exported to other markets. Since the Chinese steel industry is largely government owned, it has not been as adversely impacted by the current global recession, and it can make production and sales decisions for non market reasons. Increased imports of steel products into North America and Europe could negatively affect steel prices and demand levels and reduce our profitability. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 22 percent of the domestic steel market in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 22 percent in 2007. Foreign competitors may have lower labor costs, and some are owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Imports of tubular products to the United States increased significantly beginning in 2008. Oil country tubular goods (OCTG) imports accounted for a large share of the growth, as they have more than doubled over 2007 levels. Imports of OCTG from China registered the most dramatic increase as they grew from 900 thousand tons in 2007 to nearly 2.3 million tons in 2008. The U.S. market experienced a surge in tubular imports in the second half of 2008 that resulted in record OCTG inventories by the end of the year, which affected demand in 2009 and is continuing to affect demand in 2010. Chinese imports of seamless standard line and pressure pipe increased by more than 290 percent in the three months after the filing of antidumping and counterveiling duty petitions in September 2009, as compared to the three months prior to the filing. Imports of flat rolled steel to Canada accounted for an estimated 35 percent of the Canadian market for flat rolled steel products in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 27 percent in 2007. Total imports of flat rolled carbon steel products to the EU27 (the 27 countries currently comprising the European Union (EU)) were 15 percent of the EU market in 2009, 19 percent in 2008 and 17 percent in 2007. Increases in future levels of imported steel to North America and Europe could reduce future market prices and demand levels for steel products produced in those markets. Imports into the United States, Canada and the EU have often violated the international trade laws of these jurisdictions. While in some cases U. S. Steel and others have been successful in obtaining relief under these laws, in other circumstances relief has not been received. When received, such relief is generally subject to automatic or discretionary recision or reduction. There can be no assurance that any such relief will be obtained or continued in the future or that such relief as obtained will be adequate. Limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in obtaining sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner due to delays or defaults by suppliers, shortages or transportation problems (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or disruption of rail lines, waterways or natural gas transmission lines), resulting in production curtailments. We do not produce enough coke to meet our global requirements and our coke production capability is likely to decline over the next several years given that some of our existing coke batteries in the United States are approaching the end of their useful lives. As a result, we may be further exposed to risks concerning pricing and availability of coke from third parties. USSE is dependent upon availability of natural gas produced in Russia and transported through Ukraine. USSE experienced natural gas supply curtailments during Russias suspension of natural gas shipments to Europe in January 2009. Resulting steel production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins, and any future curtailments and escalated costs may reduce profit margins. 30 Table of Contents Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Steel producers in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the EU, Canada and Japan are generally comparable to U.S. standards, other nations, particularly China, have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Greenhouse gas policies could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create carbon dioxide (CO2). This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States has passed a bill in the House of Representatives and a bill has been introduced in the Senate. For a discussion of these, see PART I Business Environmental Matters. We cannot predict the final requirements that may be adopted in the United States and Canada, or the form of future actions that may be taken by the EU; however, such limitations could entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources, which could have a negative effect on results of operations and cash flows. Since mini mill production does not involve the same chemical reactions as integrated production, mini mills may have a competitive advantage. Also, since China and many other developing nations have not instituted greenhouse gas regulations, and since past international agreements such as the Kyoto Protocol provided exemptions and lesser standards for developing nations, we may also be at a competitive disadvantage with certain foreign steel producers. Many of our customers in the United States, Canada and Europe may experience similar impacts, which could result in decreased demand for our products. Risk Factors Concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Our retiree health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, and our pension plan costs in North America are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans covering most of our North American employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 129,000 current employees, retirees and beneficiaries are participating in the plans to receive pension and or medical benefits. At December 31, 2009, on an accounting basis, U. S. Steels retiree medical and life insurance plans were underfunded $2.9 billion and our pension plans were underfunded by $1.7 billion. Most of our employee benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Minimum contributions to domestic qualified pension plans are controlled under ERISA and other government regulations. Minimum contributions to U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) pension plans are governed by an agreement entered into by Stelco Inc. (Stelco) and the Province of Ontario that U. S. Steel assumed in conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco. This agreement requires defined annual contributions until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. Substantial cash contributions may be required to fund these benefit plans. U. S. Steel contributes to a multiemployer plan in the United States covering pensions for USW represented workers formerly employed by National Steel and workers hired after May 2003. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of this plan, which may have a negative effect on our cash flows. The collective 31 Table of Contents bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) increased our required contributions to this plan from $1.80 to $2.65 per hour. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of this plan. Total costs for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $420 million in 2010, a decrease of $40 million from 2009, while cash contributions for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $570 million in 2010, exclusive of any voluntary contributions we might choose to make. The turmoil in financial markets during 2008 has led to significant declines in the value of equity investments that are held by the trusts under our pension plans and the trust to pay for retiree health care and life insurance benefits. While some of these losses were recovered in 2009, the 2008 losses have contributed to the underfunded position at December 31, 2009. We may be required or may choose to make substantial contributions to these plans. Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and pension plans, and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Benefit obligations under our plans are not tied to operating rates; therefore, our costs are not expected to decline as a result of the global recession or any other future economic downturns. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our results of operations and cash flows. U. S. Steel is involved in numerous remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to unrelated parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. For example, we recorded a charge of $49 million in 2009 in connection with the expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works bringing the total liability for this site to $66 million as of December 31, 2009. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Many U.S. competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Competitors that have obtained relief under bankruptcy laws may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors Applicable to U. S. Steel Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to equipment failures at our facilities or those of our key suppliers. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Production at USSE was curtailed in January 2009 due to the suspension of natural gas deliveries to Europe from Russia transported through Ukraine and we remain vulnerable to this risk. Availability of raw materials and delivery of products to customers could be affected by logistical disruptions (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or unavailability of rail lines or of locks on the Great Lakes or other bodies of water). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by volatility in prices for raw materials, energy, and steel. Approximately 60 percent of U. S. Steels Flat rolled segment sales in the United States are based on sales contracts with volume commitments and durations of at least one quarter, while lesser percentages of Tubular and USSE segment sales are made pursuant to such contacts. These contracts generally have a fixed price or a price 32 Table of Contents that will fluctuate with changes in a defined index and do not always have firm volume commitments. During periods of rapid escalation of raw materials, energy and other costs such as was experienced in 2008, U. S. Steel may not be able to recover these cost increases from customers with existing fixed price agreements. Conversely, some purchase contracts require annual commitments and in periods of rapid decline, such as 2009, U. S. Steel may be faced with having agreed to purchase raw materials and energy at prices that are above the then current market price or in greater volumes than required. If steel prices decline, our profit margins on market based indexed contracts and spot business will be reduced. Declines in the production levels of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which reported substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels, leading to a reduction in oil and gas exploration and development, which in turn has resulted in lower customer demand for our Tubular segment. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. The terms of our indebtedness contain provisions that may limit our flexibility. The Amended Credit Agreement is now secured by a lien on a majority of our domestic inventory and certain of our accounts receivable and includes a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant that applies when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than $112.5 million. Because the Amended Credit Agreement was undrawn throughout 2009, this covenant was not applicable, but based on the four quarters ended December 31, 2009, we would not have met this covenant. The value or levels of inventory may decrease or we may not be able to meet this covenant in the future, and either or both of these situations would limit our ability to borrow under the Amended Credit Agreement. We also amended our $500 million RPA, which among other things increased pricing, reserve factors and percentages; changed the definition of Eligible Receivables, which resulted in an increase in the amount of our receivables ineligible for purchase; and added a change of control provision. Reductions in accounts receivable would limit our ability to sell receivables. In general, availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is limited to a monthly borrowing base for certain eligible domestic inventory. Further inventory reductions could limit availability to less than the potential $750 million. If availability under the Amended Credit Agreement falls below the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million, we would also be subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. This may be a particular problem when market conditions and order levels improve and U. S. Steel needs the liquidity to rebuild working capital. We have granted the lenders under the Amended Credit Agreement a secured position in our most liquid assets, which may be a detriment to other creditors. The Amended Credit Agreement, our Senior Convertible Notes issued in 2009 and our $1.6 billion of Senior Notes issued in 2007 also contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks. Additionally, the repayment of amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and repurchase of the Senior Convertible Notes and Senior Notes is required upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. The Amended Credit Agreement, the Senior Convertible Notes and the RPA have provisions that certain defaults under a material debt obligation could cause a default under the Amended Credit Agreement or the Senior Convertible Notes or termination of the RPA. These terms may affect our liquidity, our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. All three major ratings agencies have downgraded the ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt in the last year. This has caused increases in borrowing costs under our credit facilities. We have been required to and may be forced to provide additional collateral or financial assurance for environmental closure and other presently unsecured obligations. These and any future downgrades in our credit ratings may make raising capital more difficult, may increase the cost and affect the terms of future borrowings, may affect the terms under which we purchase goods and services and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 33 Table of Contents Change in control clauses in our financial and labor agreements grant the other parties to those agreements rights to accelerate obligations and to terminate or extend our labor agreements. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, Amended Credit Agreement, Senior Convertible Notes and various other contracts and leases, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately repurchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. Additionally, the 2008 CBAs give the USW the right to either terminate or extend the collective bargaining agreements for an additional four years. A change of control is generally defined to include any of the following: (a) the acquisition by a person or group of at least 35 percent of our common stock, (b) a merger in which holders of our common stock own less than a majority of the equity in the resulting entity, or (c) replacement of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors by persons who were not nominated by our current directors. Our operations expose us to uncertainties and risks in the countries in which we operate, which could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our U.S. operations are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the United States, which if changed could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, increased regulation, limitations on exports of energy and raw materials, and trade remedies. Actions taken by the U.S. government could affect our results of operations and cash flow. For example, certain health care reform proposals could increase the cost of our health insurance plans for active employees and retirees and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. USSK, located in Slovakia, USSS, located in Serbia, and USSC, located in Canada, constitute 39 percent of our global raw steel production capability. All of them are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the countries in which they are located, and USSK is additionally subject to economic conditions and political factors associated with the EU and the euro currency. Changes in any of these economic conditions or political factors could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, government instability, civil unrest, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. Any future foreign acquisitions could expose us to similar risks. We are subject to significant foreign currency risks, which could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. Our foreign operations accounted for approximately 30 percent of our net sales in 2009. The financial condition and results of operations of USSK, USSS and USSC are reported in various foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. The appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. In addition, the acquisition of USSC was funded from the United States, as well as through the reinvestment of undistributed foreign earnings from USSE, creating intercompany monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities involved, which can have a non cash impact on income when they are remeasured at the end of each quarter. An $892 million U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary was the primary exposure at December 31, 2009. Any future foreign acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Our business requires substantial expenditures for debt service, obligations, capital investment, operating leases and maintenance that we may be unable to fund. With $3,364 million of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2009, we have significant debt service requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2009, total capital expenditures were $3.3 billion. At December 31, 2009, our contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $152 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $173 million under operating leases. 34 Table of Contents In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, steelmaking and steel finishing facilities. As of December 31, 2009, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $173 million, operating lease obligations of approximately $26 million that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, and unconditional purchase obligations, including take or pay arrangements, totalling approximately $11.5 billion. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient, to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. The limitations under our Amended Credit Agreement and RPA, described above, may limit our availability to draw upon these facilities. We intend indefinitely to reinvest undistributed foreign earnings outside the United States; however, if we need to repatriate funds in the future to satisfy our liquidity needs, the tax consequences would reduce income and cash flow. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. Our insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insured retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by the 2008 CBAs, which expire in September 2012. These agreements contain provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USW, grant the USW a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the 2008 CBAs, require us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities and require mandatory pre funding of a trust for retiree health care and life insurance. These agreements also restrict our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further require that the ratio of non USW employees to USW employees at our domestic facilities not exceed one to five. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USW, some foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. We are at risk of labor stoppages. The collective bargaining agreement covering the Lake Erie Works expired in July 2009 and there has been a work stoppage since that time. The collective bargaining agreement at the Hamilton Works expires in July 2010, and we may not enter into a successor agreement prior to that time. There are risks associated with past acquisitions, as well as any acquisitions we may make in the future. Our acquisitions of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) and Stelco created goodwill on our balance sheet which totaled $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, and which exposes us to the risk of future impairment charges. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007 and our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined based on consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or compound annual growth rate, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. The assumptions used will have a large impact on the conclusions reached in future tests. As of 35 Table of Contents December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively. The Lone Star acquisition increased our tubular production capacity by more than 50 percent and the Stelco acquisition increased our North American steelmaking capability by 25 percent, thereby increasing our exposure to cyclical downturns in historically cyclical industries such as oil and gas, service center, conversion, automotive, construction and appliance. The success of any future acquisitions will depend substantially on the accuracy of our analysis concerning such businesses and our ability to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, to finance such acquisitions and to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Our acquisitions in 2007 involved purchase prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our acquisitions in 2003. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations and countries. Antitrust and similar laws in foreign jurisdictions may prevent us from completing acquisitions. There are risks associated with existing and potential tax law and accounting requirements. In accordance with ASC Topic 740, we have not recognized a tax benefit for pre tax losses in jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance for accounting purposes. As a result, the pre tax losses associated with USSS and USSC do not provide any tax benefit for accounting purposes. Significant changes in the mix of pre tax results among the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material impact on our effective tax rate. President Obamas administration has proposed significant changes to U.S. tax law. Some of the proposed changes, such as the repeal of the last in first out (LIFO) inventory cost method, could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow if they are enacted. We may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow in a particular period. Our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. For information regarding our current significant legal proceedings, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. We may suffer employment losses, which could negatively affect our future performance. Approximately 570 of U. S. Steels North American based non represented employees retired in 2009 as part of a voluntary early retirement program and a significant number of those remaining are or will be eligible for retirement over the next several years. 36 Table of Contents Over the last few years we had intensified our recruitment, training and retention efforts so that we may continue to optimally staff our operations, but we instituted a freeze on hiring in early 2009 in response to the global economic recession. If we are unable to hire sufficient qualified replacements for those leaving, our future performance may be adversely impacted. With respect to our represented employees, we may be adversely impacted by the loss of employees who retired or obtained other employment during the time they were laid off or subject to a work stoppage such as currently exists at Lake Erie Works. The cost reduction actions taken in 2009 increased the number of personnel and organization changes and may increase the risk of internal control failures. We may experience difficulties implementing our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. We are currently implementing an ERP system to help us operate more efficiently. This is a complex project, which is expected to be implemented in several phases over the next several years. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP program without experiencing difficulties. In addition, the expected benefits of implementing the ERP system may not be realized or the costs of implementation may outweigh the realized benefits. We extended the implementation schedule in early 2009 to reduce near term costs. This action will delay the realization of benefits from this project and may add to final project costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following tables list U. S. Steels main properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Slabs; Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Plant Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Slabs; Sheets; Coke Lake Erie Works Nanticoke, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke Hamilton Works Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke; Bars Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Slabs; Rounds; Sheets; Seamless Tubular USS POSCO Industries(a) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin mill PRO TEC Coating Company(a) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(a) Dearborn, Michigan Galvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(a) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(a) Jackson, Canton and Taylor, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(a) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(a) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(a) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Baycoat Limited Partnership(a) Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Steel processing D.C. Chrome Limited(a) Stony Creek, Ontario, Canada Roll processing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Seamless Tubular Texas Operations Lone Star, Texas Welded Tubular Bellville Operations Bellville, Texas Welded Tubular Wheeling Machine Products Pine Bluff, Arkansas and Hughes Springs and Houston, Texas Tubular couplings Tubular Processing Services Houston, Texas Tubular processing Tubular Threading and Inspection Services Houston, Texas Tubular threading, inspection and storage services Fintube Technologies, Inc. Tulsa, Oklahoma and Monterrey, Mexico Specialty Welded Tubular United Spiral Pipe, LLC(a) Pittsburg, California Spiral Welded Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Hibbing Taconite Company(a) Hibbing, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Tilden Mining Company(a) Ishpeming, Michigan Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas Transportation services (railroad and barge operations) (a) Equity investee 38 Table of Contents Other Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Koice Koice, Slovakia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Tubular; Coke; Radiators;Refractories U. S. Steel Serbia Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Limestone Apolo Tubulars S.A.(a) Lorena, Sao Paulo, Brazil Welded Tubular (a) Equity investee U. S. Steel and its predecessors (including Lone Star) have owned their properties for many years with no material adverse claims asserted. In the case of Great Lakes Works, Granite City Works, the Midwest Plant and Keetac iron ore operations acquired from National Steel in 2003; the Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia operations acquired by U. S. Steel in 2003; and the Lake Erie Works and Hamilton Works of U. S. Steel Canada acquired in 2007; U. S. Steel or its subsidiaries are the beneficiaries of bankruptcy laws and orders providing that properties are held free and clear of past liabilities. In addition, U. S. Steel or its predecessors obtained title insurance, local counsel opinions or similar protections when the major properties were initially acquired. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease. The final lease payment is due in December 2012 and the lease term expires in June 2013, subject to additional extensions. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. At the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has a supply agreement for various utility services with a company which owns a cogeneration facility located on U. S. Steel property. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. General Litigation In March 2008, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed a previous decision of the Indiana Utilitites Regulatory Commission involving a rate escalation provision in U. S. Steels electric power supply contract with Northern Indiana Public Service Company and a reserve of $45 million related to prior year effects was established in the first quarter of 2008. In June 2009, the Indiana Supreme Court overruled the Court of Appeals, and we reversed the reserve related to this litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel is vigorously defending these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. 39 Table of Contents On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. Asbestos Litigation As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active cases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. At December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 450 active cases involving approximately 3,050 plaintiffs. During 2009, settlements and dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 200 claims and U. S. Steel paid approximately $7 million in settlements. New filings added approximately 190 claims. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. Most of the claims filed in 2009, 2008 and 2007 involve individual or small groups of claimants. Historically, these claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); (2) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel; and (3) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of former operations of U. S. Steel. In general, the only insurance available to U. S. Steel with respect to asbestos claims is excess casualty insurance, which has multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has received minimal payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 210 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or our products or premises; however, with the decline in mass plaintiff cases the incidence of claimants actually alleging a claim against U. S. Steel is increasing. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or our products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing our potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any 40 Table of Contents claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where we believe litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. The following table shows activity with respect to asbestos litigation: Year ended December 31, OpeningNumber ofClaims ClaimsDismissed,Settled andResolved New Claims Closing Numberof Claims Amounts Paid toResolve Claims(in millions) 2007 3,700 1,230 530 3,000 $ 9 2008 3,000 400 450 3,050 $ 13 2009 3,050 200 190 3,040 $ 7 The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. The vast majority of pending claims against us allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. In most cases, the claimant also was exposed to asbestos in non U. S. Steel settings; the relative periods of exposure between U. S. Steel and non U. S. Steel settings vary with each claimant; and the strength or weakness of the causal link between U. S. Steel exposure and any injury vary widely. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, although the resolution of such matters could significantly impact results of operations for a particular quarter. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has declined; (2) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (3) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2009, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the 41 Table of Contents ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of, environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 31 CERCLA sites where liability is not resolved. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs will be between $1 million and $5 million for 3 of these sites, will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site for 8 of these sites, and will be under $100,000 per site for 9 of these sites. At 2 other sites, management estimates U. S. Steels share in the future cleanup costs to be $32 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. One site is known as the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pennsylvania. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation, which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel has completed the remedial design for this site and it is being reviewed by PADEP. The other site is the former Duluth Works, which was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River Interlake Duluth Tar site on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel has prepared a conceptual habitat enhancement plan (HEP) that includes measures to address contaminated sediments in the St. Louis River Estuary. MPCA (on behalf of EPA) has completed its second five year review for the site. As a result, additional data collection will be required to address data gaps identified in the five year review and corrective measures will be required to address the recently discovered areas of contamination on the upland property. Study, investigation and oversight costs along with implementation of corrective measures on the upland property and implementation of the HEP are currently estimated at $26 million. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 45 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 12 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 18 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 8 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million per site. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $5 million per site at 4 sites and in excess of $10 million per site at 1 sites. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining three sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by the EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. As of December 31, 2009, project costs have amounted to $60 million. U. S. Steel completed additional dredging in 2007, and submitted a Dredge Completion Report to EPA in May 2008. Although further dredging is not expected, $1.0 million is accrued for possible additional work that 42 Table of Contents may be required to complete the project and obtain EPA approval. The Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) which received dredged materials from the Grand Calumet River could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to an Administrative Order on Consent (1998) for corrective action. CAMU maintenance and wastewater treatment costs are anticipated to be an additional $872,000 through December 2011. In 1998, U. S. Steel also entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel, following EPA approval of the Dredge Completion Report, will pay the public trustees $1.0 million for ecological monitoring costs. In addition, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $835,000. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects based on the estimated remaining costs was $3.7 million at December 31, 2009. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites: D5, along with an adjacent solid waste disposal unit, Terminal Treatment Plant (TTP) Area; T2; and D2 combined with a portion of the Refuse Area, where a solid waste disposal unit overlaps with the hazardous waste disposal unit. The sites are located on plant property. U. S. Steel has submitted a closure plan to the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) for D2 and the known tar areas of the Refuse Area. U. S. Steel has proposed that the remainder of the Refuse Area be addressed as a Solid Waste Management Unit (SWMU) under corrective action. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a revised closure plan for T2 and separate closure plans for D5 and the TTP Area. IDEM approved the closure plans for D5 and T2 on October 15, 2009 and December 1, 2009 respectively. Implementation of both plans is expected to begin in 2010. The related accrued liability for estimated costs to close each of the hazardous waste sites and perform groundwater monitoring prior to closure is $5.8 million for D5 and TTP, $3.1 million for T2 and $10.9 million for D2 including a portion of the Refuse Area, as of December 31, 2009. On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for SWMUs throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI), a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) and Corrective Measure Implementation at Gary Works. Reports of field investigation findings for Phase I work plans have been submitted to EPA. Four self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had spent approximately $31.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval for a perimeter groundwater monitoring plan and is developing a proposal for a corrective measure to address impacted sediments in the West Grand Calumet Lagoon. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a sampling and analysis plan for the Solid Waste Management Areas east of the Vessel Slip Turning Basin, and a portion of the sediments behind the East Breakwall. U. S. Steel has begun operation of a full scale groundwater treatment system approved by EPA as a Self Implementing Stabilization Measure to address benzene impacted groundwater east of the vessel slip, and continues to operate a seasonal groundwater treatment system near the coke plant. The costs for the above mentioned activities are estimated to be $15.1 million. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval to implement corrective measures necessary to address soil contamination at Gary Works. U. S. Steel estimates the minimum cost of the corrective measures for soil contamination to be approximately $3.5 million. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $6.1 million. Until the remaining Phase I work and Phase II field investigations are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary for Corrective Action projects at Gary Works. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects was $24.7 million as of December 31, 2009, based on the estimated remaining costs. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by IDEM, acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court and thereafter became effective April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel has paid our entire share of the assessment costs and the restoration costs to the public trustees. On November 26, 2007, IDEM issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) alleging three pushing violations and one door violation on the No. 2 Battery that were to have occurred on July 11, 2007. On December 20, 2007, IDEM made a verbal penalty demand of $123,000 to resolve these alleged violations. U. S. Steel provided written responses to the NOVs. Negotiations regarding these NOVs are ongoing. 43 Table of Contents On October 3, 2007, November 26, 2007, March 2, 2008 and March 18, 2008, IDEM issued NOVs alleging opacity limitation violations from the coke plant and Blast Furnaces Nos. 4 and 8. To date, no penalty demand has been made by IDEM regarding these NOVs. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating resolution of these NOVs with IDEM. On July 3, 2008, EPA Region V issued a Notice of Violation/Finding of Violation (NOV/FOV) alleging violations resulting from a multi media inspection conducted in May 2007 and subsequent information collection requests pursuant to Section 114 of the Clean Air Act. These alleged violations include those currently being prosecuted by IDEM that are identified above. Other alleged violations include the reline of No. 4 Blast Furnace in 1990 without a New Source Review/Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit, and opacity limit excursions from hot iron transfer cars, slag skimming, slag pits, and the blast furnace casting house. The NOV/FOV also alleges violations relating to hydrochloric acid pickling, blast furnace relief valves and blast furnace flares. While a penalty demand is expected, EPA Region V has not yet made such a demand. Since issuing the NOV/FOV, EPA Region V has issued additional Section 114 information requests to Gary Works. U. S. Steel has responded to the requests and is currently negotiating resolution of the NOV/FOV and other request issues with EPA Region V and IDEM. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice On February 18, 2009, U. S. Steel received a letter from IDEM alleging that Gary Works was culpable for an ambient air quality exceedance for PM10 at the IITRI Monitoring Site. U. S. Steel responded to the letter on March 13, 2009. U. S. Steel met with IDEM on April 28, 2009 to resolve the issue. If Gary Works is determined to be culpable, U. S. Steel may be required to install and maintain two additional on site PM10 monitoring stations per the December 2006 Air Agreed Order. U. S. Steel continues to discuss the matter with IDEM. On April 13, 2009, Gary Works received a Notice of Violation from EPA Region 5 for alleged violations for New Source Review for reline of No. 13/14 during 2004 2005. U. S. Steel continues to meet with IDEM and EPA to negotiate resolution of the NOV. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. On August 20, 2009. Gary Works received an NOV and proposed Order alleging that Gary Works violated its NOx Trading Budget Allocations in 2006 ozone season. IDEM orginally proposed a penalty of $87,500. Because Gary Works corrected the error from its own allocations and no excess emissions occurred as a result of the NOx accounting error, IDEM agreed to reduce the penalty to $35,000. U. S. Steel verbally agreed to the reduced penalty and is currently drafting an Agreed Order with IDEM. Mon Valley Works On March 17, 2008, U. S. Steel entered a Consent Order and Agreement (COA) with the Allegheny County Health Department (ACHD) to resolve alleged opacity limitation and pushing and traveling violations from older coke oven batteries at its Clairton Plant and to resolve alleged opacity violations from its Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA required U. S. Steel to pay a civil penalty of $301,800 to resolve past alleged violations addressed by the COA. U. S. Steel paid the civil penalty on March 25, 2008. The COA requires U. S. Steel to conduct interim repairs on existing batteries and make improvements at the Ladle Metallurgical Facility and Steelmaking Shop at the Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA also requires that Batteries 7, 8 and 9 be shutdown by January 24, 2013 and Batteries 1, 2 and 3 be shutdown by August 11, 2015. Batteries 7 through 9 were shutdown in April 2009. We are repairing existing Batteries 19 and 20 and we continue to evaluate plans to construct new coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. U. S. Steel is also making upgrades at its Edgar Thomson Plant that would reduce emissions. On September 3, 2009, U. S. Steel Mon Valley Clairton Works incurred a catastrophic failure of its Desulfurization Plant. Because of this event, the Clairton, Edgar Thomson, and Irvin plants have exceeded their sulfur limit for air emissions when burning coke oven gas. The Desulfurization Plant was inoperable from September 3, 2009 through the remainder of 2009. U. S. Steel has provided the regulatory agencies with reports and updates. While no NOV has been issued to date, the Allegheny County Health Department has verbally indicated that it intends to issue a violation notice regarding the inability to desulfuirze the coke oven gas to meet the sulfur loading limits. On October 8, 2009, Mon Valley Clairton Works received a NOV from ACHD alleging that Clairton Works was culpable for hydrogen sulfide (H2S) Pennsylvania ambient air quality standard exceedances. The NOV requires U. S. Steel to submit a plan with milestones to reduce and minimize fugitive emissions of coke oven gas from the coke producing operations at Clairton including identification of coke oven gas emission sources and method of improved emission prevention and control. While U. S. Steel appealed the NOV on October 16, 2009, U. S. Steel 44 Table of Contents submitted an Action Plan to ACHD that was required by the NOV. U. S. Steel and ACHD have performed H2S modeling and are in the process of evaluating all potential sources of H2S in the area. U. S. Steel and ACHD continue to meet and discuss resolution. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a SWMU (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After the acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel has submitted a Closure Plan to IDEM recommending consolidation and in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.0 million and was recorded as an accrued liability as of December 31, 2009. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform an RFI and a CMS at our Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $617,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997. In accordance with the consent decree, U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two supplemental environmental projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the Fairfield Works facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) with the approval of EPA assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works. ADEM is currently reviewing the Phase II RFI work plan. The remaining cost to develop and implement the Phase II RFI work plan is estimated to be $787,000. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc., whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $210,000. In 2006, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of Upper Opossum Creek at a cost of $2.95 million, with a remaining contingency of $18,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. In 2007, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of approximately two acres of land at the former Ensley coke plant. As of December 31, 2009, costs to complete the remediation of this area have amounted to $1.3 million. An additional $49,000 remains accrued for project contingencies at Ensley with an additional $65,000 accrued for the contiguous properties. In total, the accrued liability for the projects described above was $1.0 million as of December 31, 2009, based on estimated remaining costs. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Lorain Tubular Operations In September 2006, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) inviting U. S. Steel to enter into discussions about RCRA Corrective Action at Lorain Tubular Operations. Those discussions resulted in the identification of ten SWMUs and three Areas of Concern (AOC) requiring further investigation and evaluation. In addition, U. S. Steel notified Ohio EPA in August 2009 of an additional SWMU based upon its field observations and a preliminary assessment. Currently, U. S. Steel is implementing a Phase I RFI on the identified SWMUs and AOCs. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has spent $223,000 on studies at 45 Table of Contents this site. Costs to complete additional studies are estimated to be $547,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Great Lakes Works On January 6, 2006, U. S. Steel received a proposed administrative consent order from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the Great Lakes Works facility. On February 13, 2007, MDEQ and U. S. Steel agreed to a revised Administrative Consent Order that resolves this matter. As required by the Administrative Consent Order, U. S. Steel has paid a civil penalty of $300,000 and has reimbursed MDEQ $50,000 in costs. The Order identifies certain compliance actions that address the alleged violations. U. S. Steel has completed work on most of these compliance actions, and has initiated work on the others. One of the compliance actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has completed the corrective measure necessary to remove historical basin sediments from these areas. As of December 31, 2009, $1.8 million had been spent on the project. In addition, $161,000 remains accrued for possible additional requirements to obtain MDEQ approval. Another compliance action includes modifications to the Cold Mill Wastewater Treatment Plant where U. S. Steel has agreed to rehabilitate four clarifiers and two wastewater conveyance pipelines, upgrade the computer control system and evaluate other potential improvements of this system. The vast majority of the elements of this project have been completed at a cost of $8.8 million and U. S. Steel anticipates spending an additional $110,000 most of which will be capitalized. Costs to complete the few remaining compliance actions are presently not determinable. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Great Lakes Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Great Lakes Works violated casthouse roof monitor and baghouse opacity limits; slag pit opacity limits; Basic Oxygen Process roof monitor opacity limits; and certain permit recordkeeping and parametric monitoring requirements. Great Lakes Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the DOJ. Granite City Works U. S. Steel received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004, for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop at our Granite City Works facility. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occurs when coke is pushed out of the ovens, for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. In December 2006, IEPA added to its complaint by adding a release of coke oven gas in February 2006. In October 2007, the Court entered a Second Supplemental Complaint in which IEPA added alleged violations regarding excessive opacity emissions from the blast furnace, and incorrect sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission factors regarding blast furnace gas emissions. On December 18, 2007, U. S. Steel entered into a Consent Order with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA that resolved the Complaint, as supplemented. The Order required that U. S. Steel: (1) pay a penalty of $300,000, which U. S. Steel paid on January 10, 2008; (2) demonstrate compliance with Coke Oven Pushing Operations in accordance with the compliance schedule provided in the Order; (3) comply with the basic oxygen furnace (BOF) opacity emissions in accordance with the schedule provided in the Order; and (4) submit to IEPA a revised permit application with the correct SO2 emission factors, which U. S. Steel submitted in January 2008. On September 30, 2008, U. S. Steel submitted a revised BOF Compliance Schedule and requested to modify the Order consistent with the revised BOF Compliance Schedule. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating with IEPA and the Illinois Attorney General as to what upgrades at the BOF will precede the compliance demonstration. U. S. Steel met with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA on June 11, 2009 to discuss the BOF Compliance Plan and Schedule. While the meeting was productive, the compliance demonstration deadline for the BOF remains indefinitely postponed by agreement of the parties. At Granite City Works, U. S. Steel and Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway), a subsidiary of SunCoke Energy, Inc., have agreed with two environmental advocacy groups to establish an Environmental Trust 46 Table of Contents Fund (Trust), which requires the permittees (U. S. Steel and Gateway) to collectively deposit $1.0 million by September 30th of each year, beginning September 30, 2008 and ending September 30, 2012. U. S. Steel contributed $500,000 to the Trust on September 30, 2008, which amounted to its share of the required 2008 deposit. On September 30, 2009, U. S. Steel contributed an additional $500,000 to the Trust pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. As grantors, U. S. Steel and Gateway have established the Trust as a part of the cost to construct a heat recovery coke plant adjacent to Granite City Works. The capital contribution and all net income of the Trust are to be used for the purposes of promoting energy efficiency, greenhouse gas reductions and PM2.5 emission reduction, to be implemented in the local community where Granite City Works is located. The Trust can be used for projects at public buildings or property owned by the city, local schools, parks and library districts. On February 2, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging approximately 16 separate violations. Specifically, IEPA alleged that Granite City Works: inappropriately charged a battery while off the collecting mains because of (1) damaged coke guides on one occasion and (2) derailment of the pushing control system on two occasions; failed to perform some monthly and quarterly inspections required by Iron & Steel Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards or Coke MACT standards; failed to initiate repairs within 30 days after recording that the baffles on the quench tower were damaged on the monthly inspection report; failed to adequately wash the baffles on the quench tower per the MACT standard; inappropriately used the emergency pour station at the BOP during routine, non emergency maintenance; failed to sufficiently apply a wetting agent to the slag from BF A to minimize fugitive emissions while loading trucks and failed to update and properly implement its Fugitive Dust Program. U. S. Steel provided a written response to IEPA on March 18, 2009 and met with IEPA on April 8, 2009 to resolve the issues identified in the NOV. U. S. Steel supplemented its response on April 29, 2009. IEPA has not made any penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. On March 17, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging the following at Granite City Works: door leaks from B Battery; volatile organic compounds from pressure relief valves from gas blanketing tank; coke by products process unit and information (lacking); failure to report retagging project for benzene in service equipment; and failure to maintain records for benzene in service equipment repairs. U. S. Steel responded to the NOV on May 8, 2009, and met with IEPA regarding the issues identified in the NOV on June 9, 2009. IEPA has not made a penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. In late January 2009, Granite City Works exceeded its natural gas usage and corresponding emission limits for 2008 at designated combustion units, including boilers and ladle drying. A notification letter was submitted to IEPA by U. S. Steel on January 30, 2009. Per U. S. Steels January 30, 2009 correspondence, U. S. Steel provided a Compliance Plan regarding fuel use and fuel balance to IEPA on February 28, 2009. IEPA has not responded to the self reported violations or made any penalty demand. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Granite City Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Granite City Works: failed to apply for an obtain a Prevention of Signficant Deterioration/New Source Review permit for the 1994 B Blast Furnace reline (while the furnace was owned by National Steel Corporation); exceeded BOP roof monitor opacity limits, exceeded blast furnace casthouse roof monitor opacity limits; and failed to complete certain permit recordkeeping and parameteric monitoring requirements. Granite City Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and the current property owner pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality. U. S. Steel developed work plans and completed remediation on certain areas of the site. Having completed the invesigation on a majority of remaining areas identified in the permit, U. S. Steel has 47 Table of Contents determined that the most effective means to address the remaining impacted material is to manage those materials in a previously approved on site Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU). U. S. Steel has recorded a liability of $66 million as of December 2009, for our estimated share of the remaining costs of remediation, including the construction, waste management, closure and post closure of a CAMU. USS POSCO Industries (UPI) At UPI, a joint venture between subsidaries of U. S. Steel and POSCO Industries, corrective measures have been implemented for the majority of the former SWMUs. Seven SWMUs remain at the facility, five of which require further remediation. Prior to the formation of UPI, U. S. Steel owned and operated the Pittsburg, California facility and U. S. Steel retained responsibility for the existing environmental conditions. Two SWMUs may not require further action pending a No Further Action decision by the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC). Of the five SWMUs requiring remediation, U. S. Steel is nearing completion of investigatory work which will result in engineered remedies for two SWMUs. These SWMUs include the impacted ground water at the former wire mill, and the coal tar pitch impacted soils near the old foundry building. U. S. Steel is continuing discussions with the DTSC regarding additional corrective measures that may be required at the three remaining SWMUs within the facility. Arsenic impacted soils and groundwater have been delineated at these three SWMUs. While it is likely that corrective measures will be required at these SWMUs, it is not possible at this time to define a scope or estimate costs for what may be required by DTSC. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Other On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB) entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Implementation of the preferred remedy was essentially completed in late 2007. The respondents are finalizing the Removal Action Summary report by addressing some minor site maintenance issues, deed restrictions and operating and maintenance plans for approval by KDHE. U. S. Steel and SSB continue to work with KDHE to address site maintenance issues. At December 31, 2009, an accrual of $121,000 remains available for these project contingencies. On January 23, 2006, Kansas Department of Health and Environment KDHE sent a letter to U. S. Steel requesting that U. S. Steel address a former zinc smelter site in Girard, Kansas. U. S. Steel completed a site investigation, and submitted a Corrective Action Study (CAS) necessary to address the impacted soils at this site. KDHE approved the CAS on November 17, 2009. In addition, a Consent Agreement and Final Order, through which the remediation will be conducted, remains to be negotiated with KDHE. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has an accrued liability of $1 million to complete the investigation and conduct the remedial measure as proposed in the CAS. In January of 2004, U. S. Steel received notice of a claim from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and notice of claims from citizens of a cap failure at the Dayton Landfill. U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil are the largest PRPs at the site and have agreed to equally share costs for investigating the site, making U. S. Steels share 33 1/3 percent. The Remedial Action Plan for the site was approved by TCEQ in June 2009. On December 10, 2009, pursuant to the Texas Solid Waste Disposal Act, The Cox Road Group (comprised of U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil) filed a contribution/cost of recovery action against apporximately 50 parties in Liberty County, Texas. Implementation of remedial measures is expected to be initiated in 2010. The accrued liability to complete U. S. Steels one third portion of the site investigations and implement the remedial measure was $1.8 million as of December 31, 2009. 48 Table of Contents Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2010, are as follows: Name Age Title Executive OfficerSince George F. Babcoke 53 Senior Vice President European Operations & President U. S. Steel Koice March 1, 2008 James D. Garraux 57 General Counsel & Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs February 1, 2007 John H. Goodish 61 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer December 31, 2001 Gretchen R. Haggerty 54 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer December 31, 2001 David H. Lohr 56 Senior Vice President Strategic Planning, Business Services & Administration June 1, 2008 John P. Surma 55 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer December 31, 2001 Susan M. Suver 50 Vice President Human Resources November 1, 2007 Gregory A. Zovko 48 Vice President & Controller April 1, 2009 All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel or our subsidiaries for more than the past five years, with the exception of Ms. Suver. Prior to joining U. S. Steel, Ms. Suver served as corporate vice president, Global Human Resources for Arrow Electronics, Inc. (Arrow), a $12 billion global provider of industrial and commercial electronic components and computer products. She joined Arrow in 2001 as vice president, Global Organizational Development. Prior to that, she served as vice president, Organization Effectiveness and Communication for Phelps Dodge Corporation. Messrs. Garraux, Goodish and Surma and Ms. Haggerty will hold office until the annual election of executive officers by the Board of Directors following the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or until his or her earlier resignation, retirement or removal. Messrs. Babcoke, Lohr and Zovko and Ms. Suver will hold office until their resignation, retirement or removal. 49 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 61. As of January 31, 2010, there were 20,322 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. Dividends are declared by U. S. Steel on a quarterly basis. For the first quarter of 2009, the dividend declared per share of U. S. Steel common stock was $.30 and for the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, the dividend declared was $.05. For the first and second quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.25 and for the third and fourth quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.30. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds. Shareholder Return Performance The graph below compares the yearly change in cumulative total shareholder return of our common stock with the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poors (S&Ps) 500 Stock Index and the S&P Steel Index. The S&P Steel Index is comprised of U. S. Steel, Nucor Corporation, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated and Worthington Industries, Inc. 50 Table of Contents Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities U. S. Steel had no sales of unregistered securities during the period covered by this report and we have suspended purchases under our Common Stock Repurchase Program. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2009 2008 2007(a) 2006 2005 Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(b) $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 $ 15,715 $ 14,039 (Loss) income from operations(c) (1,684 ) 3,069 1,213 1,785 1,439 Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(c) (1,401 ) 2,112 879 1,374 910 Per Common Share Data: Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(d) basic (10.42 ) 18.04 7.44 11.88 7.87 diluted (10.42 ) 17.96 7.40 11.18 7.00 Dividends per share declared and paid 0.45 1.10 0.80 0.60 0.38 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 15,422 $ 16,087 $ 15,632 $ 10,586 $ 9,822 Capitalization: Debt(e) $ 3,364 $ 3,145 $ 3,257 $ 1,025 $ 1,612 United States Steel Corporation stockholders equity 4,676 4,895 5,531 4,365 3,324 Total capitalization $ 8,040 $ 8,040 $ 8,788 $ 5,390 $ 4,936 (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. (b) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from higher average realized prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe (including favorable foreign currency effects) and higher shipments of flat rolled and tubular products in the U.S. The increase in net sales from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from higher shipments and increased average realized prices prices in all three reportable segments. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2006 to 2007 mainly resulted from higher raw materials and outage related costs in the U.S. and Europe, increased maintenance costs in the U.S., lower average realized prices for tubular products in the U.S. and unfavorable inventory transition effects related to inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco. These were partially offset by higher prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe. The increase from 2005 to 2006 was mainly due to higher average realized prices in the U.S., higher shipments of flat rolled products in the U.S. and in Europe and lower raw materials costs in Europe. These were partially offset by higher raw materials costs in the U.S. (d) See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2009 and 2008 see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from new debt issued to fund the acquisitions of USSC and Lone Star. The decrease from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from the repurchase of most of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due August 1, 2008, and from the repayment and termination of a 195 million credit facility at USSK. 51 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the tenth largest steel producer in the world and the largest integrated steel producer headquartered in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions to produce a wide range of flat rolled and tubular steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil, gas and petrochemical industries. In addition to our facilities in the United States, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Canada through U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) and in Europe through U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), located in Serbia. U. S. Steels financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. While the operating results of our various businesses are affected by a number of business specific factors (see Item 1. Business Steel Industry Background and Competition), the primary drivers for U. S. Steel are general economic conditions in North America, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other benefits costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. Following several years of strong performance, the steel industry and U. S. Steel were quickly and severely impacted by the global recession starting in late 2008. In response to these economic conditions, our strategy has been to enhance our liquidity, maintain a solid balance sheet and position ourselves for success in the longer term. In late 2008 and early 2009, we idled all or portions of numerous steel making, finishing, raw materials and tubular operations in the U.S., Canada and Europe and operated our remaining facilities at reduced levels to match our customers lower demand requirements. We continue to monitor the impact of the economic situation on our customers and to adjust our operations to efficiently meet their requirements. Our raw steel capability utilization rate in 2009 was 48% for Flat rolled operations and 69% for USSE operations. With respect to financial matters, we reduced our quarterly dividend, completed successful offerings of senior convertible notes and common stock and renegotiated the provisions of existing financial covenants with lenders. We initiated substantial cost reduction activities at all locations, including reducing our non represented workforce through restructuring, attrition and early retirement programs. We agreed with the United Steel Workers (USW) to defer certain mandatory trust contributions, implemented a hiring freeze, eliminated merit pay salary increases, suspended the Company match on our 401(k) program, and reduced fees for Board of Directors and base salaries for all general managers and executives. We significantly reduced our capital expenditures for 2009 from the original plan of $740 million to $472 million by focusing largely on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. We voluntarily contributed $140 million to the main defined benefit plan as we still believe that this is appropriate to mitigate larger potential funding requirements in the future. We refinanced $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds extending their maturity dates from 2011 to maturity dates ranging from 2017 to 2030. We finished the year with total liquidity of $2.5 billion, an improvement of nearly $300 million from the average of the previous five year ends. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to earn a competitive return on capital employed by implementing our strategy to be a world leader in safety and environmental performance; to continue to increase our value added product mix; to further expand our global business platform; to maintain a strong capital structure, balance sheet and liquidity position; to continue to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to attract and retain a diverse and talented workforce. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which are impacting the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the level of unfunded pension and other benefits obligations; the degree of industry consolidation; the impact of production and consumption of steel in China and other developing countries; and the levels of steel imports into the markets we serve. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to employee benefits liabilities and assets held in trust relating to such liabilities; the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; goodwill and intangible assets; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations and potential litigation claims and settlements. Managements estimates are based on historical experience, current business and market conditions, and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. LIFO (last in, first out) is the predominant method of inventory costing for inventories in the United States and FIFO (first in, first out) is the predominant method used in Canada and Europe. The LIFO method of inventory costing was used for 49 percent and 39 percent of consolidated inventories at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Equity Method Investments Investments in entities over which U. S. Steel has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are carried at U. S. Steels share of net assets plus loans, advances and our share of earnings less distributions. Differences in the basis of the investment and the underlying net asset value of the investee, if any, are amortized into earnings over the remaining useful life of the associated assets. Income from investees includes U. S. Steels share of income from equity method investments, which is generally recorded a month in arrears, except for significant and unusual items which are recorded in the period of occurrence. Gains or losses from changes in ownership of unconsolidated investees are recognized in the period of change. Intercompany profits and losses on transactions with equity investees have been eliminated in consolidation subject to lower of cost or market inventory adjustments. U. S. Steel evaluates impairment of its equity method investments whenever circumstances indicate that a decline in value below carrying value is other than temporary. Under these circumstances, we would adjust the investment down to its estimated fair value, which then becomes its new carrying value. Pensions and Other Benefits The recording of net periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pensions and other benefits is based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the 53 Table of Contents assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steels investment strategy for its U.S. pension and other benefits plan assets provides for a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality bonds and selected smaller investments in private equities, investment trusts, timber and mineral interests. For its U.S. pension plans, U. S. Steel has a target allocation for plan assets of 60 percent equities with the balance primarily invested in corporate bonds and government backed bonds and Treasury bills. For the Other Benefit plans, the target allocation for plan assets is 65 percent equities. U. S. Steel also believes that returns on equities over the long term will be higher than returns from fixed income securities as actual historical returns from U. S. Steels trusts have shown. Returns on bonds tend to offset some of the shorter term volatility of stocks. Both equity and fixed income investments are made across a broad range of industries and companies to provide protection against the impact of volatility in any single industry as well as company specific developments. U. S. Steel is currently using an 8.00 percent assumed rate of return for purposes of the expected return on assets for the development of net periodic cost for the main defined benefit pension plan and Other Benefits. This rate was chosen by taking into account the intended asset mix and the historical premiums that fixed income and equity investments have yielded above government bonds. Actual returns since the inception of the plans have exceeded this 8.00 percent rate and while some recent annual returns have not, it is U. S. Steels expectation that future periods will return to this level. For USSC defined benefit pension plans, U. S. Steels investment strategy is similar to its strategy for U.S. plans, whereby the Company seeks a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality corporate and government bonds and selected smaller investments with a target allocation for plan assets of 65 percent equities. A 7.50 percent rate of return is being used for the development of net periodic costs in 2010 which is lower than the U.S. pension plan assumption as subcategories within the asset mix are from a more limited investment universe and, as a result, have a lower expected return. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate used to measure both domestic pension and other benefits obligations to 5.5 percent from 6.0 percent. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which we estimate the pension and other benefits liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting the domestic rates, we utilize several AAA and AA corporate bond indices as an indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. For USSC benefit plans, a discount rate was selected through a similar review process using Canadian bond rates and indices and at December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate to 6.0 percent from 6.5 percent for its Canadian based pension and other benefits. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Much of our costs for the domestic USW participants retiree health benefits (other than for most surviving spouses) in the Companys main domestic insurance plan are subject to a cost cap that was negotiated in 2003. As a result of the collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) (see Note 17 to the Financial Statements), our costs are subject to the full impact of escalation for the surviving spouse beneficiaries since their retiree premium contributions are now a flat fixed amount. Escalation applies to most other groups within the Companys insurance plans, but does not apply to most domestic non union retirees since their benefits are limited to flat dollar amounts. For measurement of its domestic retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 8.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2015 and remain at that level thereafter. For measurement of its Canadian retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 7.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2014 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, including multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $270 million in 2010 compared to $271 million in 2009. Pension cost for 2009 included $80 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Total other benefits costs in 2010 are expected to be approximately $150 million, compared to $191 million in 2009. Other benefit costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Excluding the 2009 settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the expected increase in total pension cost is primarily due to a lower market related value of plan assets primarily due to further recognition of the asset losses that were incurred in 2008. 54 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical  1/2 percentage point change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and other benefits calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) 1/2% (1/2%) Expected return on plan assets Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension cost for 2010 $ (52 ) $ 52 Discount rate Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension & other benefits costs for 2010 $ (22 ) $ 32 Pension & other benefits liabilities at December 31, 2009 $ (613 ) $ 658 Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental increase (decrease) in: Service and interest cost components for 2010 $ 8 $ (7 ) Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost over the fair value of acquired identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities assumed from businesses acquired. We have two reporting units that have a significant amount of goodwill. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007. These amounts reflect the benefits we expect the Flat rolled reporting unit to realize from expanding our flexibility in meeting our customers needs and running our Flat rolled facilities at higher operating rates to source our semi finished product needs. Our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition, reflecting the benefits we expect the reporting unit to realize from the expansion of our tubular operations. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. U. S. Steel completed its annual goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of 2009 and determined that there was no goodwill impairment for either reporting unit. Fair value was determined in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820 on fair value, which requires consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable. For the 2009 annual goodwill impairment test, U. S. Steel used fair values estimated under the income approach and the market approach. Although considered, U. S. Steel did not utilize the cost approach as relevant data was not available. The income approach is based upon projected future cash flows discounted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk associated with the future cash flows. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using probability weighted scenarios of future cash flow projections based on managements long range estimates of market conditions over a multiple year horizon. A three percent perpetual growth rate was used to arrive at an estimated future terminal value. A discount rate of 11 percent was used for both reporting units which was based upon the cost of capital of other comparable steel companies, which we view as the most likely market participants. The market approach is based upon an analysis of valuation metrics for companies comparable to our reporting units. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using an appropriate valuation multiple based on this analysis, estimated normalized earnings and an estimated control premium. 55 Table of Contents In order to validate the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units, a reconciliation of the aggregate fair values of all reporting units to market capitalization, using a reasonable control premium, was performed as of the valuation date. We further validated the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units using other valuation metrics that included data from historical U. S. Steel transactions as well as published analyst reports. As of December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively, but would still result in no goodwill impairment charge. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit under the income approach are determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions, including assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or assumed growth rates, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. U. S. Steel has determined that certain acquired intangible assets have indefinite useful lives. These assets are reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long lived assets U. S. Steel evaluates long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of those productive assets exceed their projected undiscounted cash flows. We evaluate the impairment of long lived assets at the asset group level. Our asset groupings are the same as our reporting units. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel determines that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of our deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of our net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. income taxes on undistributed foreign earnings because as of December 31, 2009, it remained managements intention to continue indefinitely to reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2009 amounted to approximately $2,901 million. If such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $870 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss for items that have been or may be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, court case, tax ruling or other authoritative tax position), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2009, the total accrual for environmental remediation was $203 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations. Due to uncertainties inherent in remediation projects, it is possible that total remediation costs for active matters may exceed the accrued liability by as much as 15 to 30 percent. Segments U. S. Steel has three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2008, the operating results of our iron ore operations, which were previously included in Other Businesses, are included in the Flat rolled segment. The iron ore operations are managed as part of our Flat rolled segment, which consumes almost all of our iron ore production. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this change. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels North American integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of slabs, rounds, strip mill plates, sheets and tin mill products , as well as all iron ore and coke production facilities in the United States and Canada. The steel rounds and a portion of the hot rolled sheets produced by Flat rolled are supplied to the Tubular segment. These operations primarily serve North American customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), construction, container, and appliance and electrical markets. Flat rolled has annual raw steel production capability of 24.3 million tons. Flat rolled had annual raw steel production capability of 20.2 million tons for the year ended December 31, 2007 as annual raw steel production capability includes U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Raw steel production was 11.7 million tons in 2009, 19.2 million tons in 2008 and 16.8 million tons in 2007. Raw steel production averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009, 79 percent of capability in 2008 and 83 percent of capability in 2007. The USSE segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and coke production facilities in Slovakia; U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and other facilities in Serbia; and equity investees located in Europe. USSE primarily serves customers in the European construction, service center, conversion, container, transportation (including automotive), appliance and electrical, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. USSE produces and sells slabs, sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill products and spiral welded pipe, as well as heating radiators and refractory ceramic materials. USSE has annual raw steel production capability of 7.4 million tons. USSEs raw steel production was 5.1 million tons in 2009, 6.4 million tons in 2008 and 6.8 million tons in 2007. USSEs raw steel production averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009, 86 percent of capability in 2008 and 92 percent of capability in 2007. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels tubular production facilities, primarily in the United States, and equity investees in the United States and Brazil. These operations produce and sell seamless and electric resistance welded (ERW) steel casing and tubing (commonly known as oil country tubular goods or OCTG), standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. Tubulars annual production capability is 2.8 million tons. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses include transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations and engineering consulting services. For further information, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents Net Sales (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Net Sales by Segment (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2009 2008 2007(b) Flat rolled(a) $ 6,814 $ 13,789 $ 9,986 USSE 2,944 5,487 4,667 Tubular 1,216 4,251 1,985 Total sales from reportable segments 10,974 23,527 16,638 Other Businesses(a) 74 227 235 Net sales $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 (a) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements. (b) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2009 versus Year Ended December 31, 2008 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 40 % 8 % 0 % 1 % 2 % 51 % USSE 20 % 20 % 1 % 3 % 2 % 46 % Tubular 63 % 5 % 1 % 0 % 4 % 71 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The decrease in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected decreased shipments (down 7.0 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $129 per net ton). The decrease in sales for USSE was primarily due to decreased shipments (down 1.2 million net tons) and lower average realized euro based transaction prices (down $295 per net ton including foreign currency translation effects). The decrease in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from decreased shipments (down 1.3 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $286 per net ton). 58 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 versus Year Ended December 31, 2007 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 19 % 19 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 38 % USSE 7 % 18 % 1 % 7 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 40 % 64 % 4 % 0 % 6 % 114 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The increase in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected higher average realized prices (up $138 per ton) and increased shipments, primarily due to the inclusion of USSC for all of 2008. The increase in sales for USSE was primarily due to higher average realized euro based transaction prices and currency translation effects, partially offset by reduced shipments. Including the currency translation effects, reported average realized prices increased $212 per ton from 2007. The increase in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from higher average realized prices (up $706 per ton) and increased shipments, partially due to the inclusion of the former Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) facilities for the entire year in 2008. Operating Expenses Profit based union payments Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Allocated to segment results $ $ 237 $ 119 Retiree benefit expenses 99 Total $ $ 237 $ 218 Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 did not include any costs for profit based payments to employees represented by the USW because the base threshold of operating income agreed to in the 2008 CBAs was not met. Results for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 include costs related to profit based payments. These costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Profit based payment amounts per the agreements with the USW are calculated as a percentage of consolidated income from operations (as defined in the agreements) and are paid as profit sharing to active USW represented employees (excluding employees of USSC) based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. Amounts in 2007 also include costs related to a trust that was to be used to assist retirees from National Steel with health care costs. Pension and other benefits costs Defined benefit and multiemployer pension plan costs totaled $271 million during 2009, $78 million during 2008 and $129 million in 2007. Pension costs during 2009 included $80 million for several voluntary early retirement programs (VERPs) and losses in connection with the sale of a majority of the operating assets of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E). Excluding these losses, the increase in expense from 2008 to 2009 mainly reflected the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Pension costs during 2007 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $20 million. Excluding these losses, the decrease in expense from 2007 to 2008 mainly reflected the improved funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $25 million during 2009, $35 million during 2008 and $26 million during 2007. Costs in 2009 included $13 million for VERP related benefits under these plans. Other benefits costs, which are included in income from operations, totaled $191 million in 2009, $149 million in 2008 and $136 million in 2007. Other benefits costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and 59 Table of Contents curtailment losses. Excluding these losses, the increase in 2009 was primarily due to impacts of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs partially offset by lower costs at USSC as a result of favorable claims experience. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of expenses related to USSC employees for the full year. For additional information on pensions and other benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Nonretirement postemployment benefits U. S. Steel incurred costs of and paid approximately $85 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 related to employee costs for supplemental unemployment benefits, salary continuance and continuation of health care benefits and life insurance coverage for employees associated with the temporary idling of certain facilities and reduced production at others. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $618 million in 2009, $625 million in 2008 and $589 million in 2007. Pension and other benefits costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $164 million in 2009, $47 million in 2008 and $86 million in 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses remained consistent from 2008 to 2009 but were impacted by an increase in pension and OPEB costs offset by a decrease in compensation expense. The increase in 2008 mainly resulted from increased expenses related to our 2007 acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and higher compensation expense, partially offset by lower pension expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization Depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses were $661 million in 2009, $605 million in 2008 and $506 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily related to the fact that effective January 1, 2009 we eliminated the use of the modified straight line method, which was previously used for certain steel producing assets in the United States. The increase in 2008 was primarily related to the full year impact of assets acquired in the business acquisitions during 2007. The modification factors previously applied to straight line calculations ranged from a minimum of 85 percent at a production level below 81 percent of capability, to a maximum of 105 percent for a 100 percent production level. No modification was made at the 95 percent production level. Applying modification factors decreased depreciation expense, when compared to a straight line calculation, by $58 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 60 Table of Contents (Loss) Income from Operations(a) Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 2007 Flat rolled(b) $ (1,438 ) $ 1,390 $ 382 USSE (208 ) 491 687 Tubular 57 1,207 356 Total (loss) income from reportable segments (1,589 ) 3,088 1,425 Other Businesses(b) (2 ) 77 84 Segment (loss) income from operations (1,591 ) 3,165 1,509 Retiree benefit expenses (134 ) (22 ) (143 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Federal excise tax refund 34 Litigation reserve 45 (45 ) Net (loss) gain on the sale of assets 97 Environmental remediation charge (49 ) (23 ) Workforce reduction charges (86 ) (57 ) Deferred gain recognition 150 Labor agreement signing payments (105 ) Asset impairment charge (28 ) Flat rolled inventory transition effects (23 ) (58 ) Tubular inventory transition effects (38 ) Total (loss) income from operations $ (1,684 ) $ 3,069 $ 1,213 (a) See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280. (b) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. 61 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled (Includes USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007) The Flat rolled segment generated a loss of $1,438 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $1,390 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted mainly from unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $2,450 million), lower income from reduced steel substrate sales to our Tubular segment (approximately $400 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities (approximately $360 million), facility restart costs (approximately $70 million) and lower income from equity investments (approximately $190 million). These were partially offset by lower raw material and natural gas costs (approximately $370 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $300 million). The increase in Flat rolleds segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 resulted mainly from higher commercial effects (approximately $2,780 million) and increased income from semi finished steel sales to Tubular (approximately $470 million). These were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials (approximately $1,560 million) and energy (approximately $280 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $170 million) and higher accruals for profit based payments (approximately $150 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. 62 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE The USSE segment generated a loss of $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $491 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $1,300 million) and reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $135 million) partially offset by lower raw material costs (approximately $620 million), reduced facility repair and maintenance costs (approximately $60 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $50 million). The decrease in USSEs segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to higher raw materials and energy costs (approximately $780 million), net unfavorable currency effects (approximately $50 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $40 million) and outage related costs (approximately $30 million), partially offset by higher commercial effects (approximately $740 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. Capability utilization in 2008 was adversely affected by the reline of the No. 1 blast furnace in Slovakia and by reduced operations late in the year to match declining customer demand. 63 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular (Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007) The decrease in Tubulars segment income in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to unfavorable commercial effects (approximately $1,080 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities and facilities operating at reduced production levels (approximately $35 million and $60 million, respectively) and write downs of inventory (approximately $35 million). These were partially offset by lower costs of substrate steel purchases from the Flat rolled segment (approximately $40 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $55 million). The increase in Tubulars segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 mainly resulted from higher commercial effects (approximately $1,580), due in part to the inclusion of results for facilities acquired from Lone Star for the entire year. This was partially offset by increased costs for semi finished steel (approximately $610 million) from Flat rolled and outside sources. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses generated a loss of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $77 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted from the impacts of the global recession and the sale of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E) in the first quarter of 2009. Results for Other Businesses decreased by $7 million from 2007 to 2008. Items not allocated to segments: Retiree benefit expenses increased significantly from 2008 to 2009 mainly due to the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Retiree benefit expenses decreased significantly from 2007 to 2008 mainly due to lower retiree pension expense (See Operating Expenses Pension and other benefits costs) and lower profit based expense related to certain former National Steel employees (See Operating Expenses Profit based union payments). 64 Table of Contents During 2009, U. S. Steel received a federal excise tax refund of $34 million associated with the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales from 1990 to 1992. A litigation reserve of $45 million involving a rate escalation provision in a U. S. Steel power supply contract was established in 2008 as a result of a court ruling and was subsequently reversed in 2009 as that decision was overturned. See Part II. Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings. We recorded a $97 million pre tax net gain on sale of assets in 2009 as a result of the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. The net gain included a pension curtailment loss of approximately $10 million. We recorded a $49 million environmental remediation charge in 2009 in connection with the definition of an expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works. We recorded a $23 million environmental remediation charge in 2008 as the scope of work became defined for an environmental project at a former operating location. Workforce reduction charges of $86 million in 2009 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a VERP offered in the first quarter of 2009 to certain non represented employees in the United States. Workforce reduction charges of $57 million in 2007 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a voluntary early retirement plan offered to certain employees at USSK. We recognized a noncash deferred gain of $150 million in 2008 in connection with the termination of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements. The 2008 CBAs provided for labor agreement signing payments of up to $6,000 per employee which resulted in a charge of $105 million in 2008. An asset impairment charge of $28 million in 2008 resulted from our decision to exit the drawn over mandrel (DOM) tubular products business. The charge was taken principally to write down to fair value equipment associated with the DOM business. Inventory transition effects of $23 million in 2008 and $96 million in 2007 reflected the charges for conforming certain inventories acquired from Lone Star to our unified business model, and the impact of selling inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco, which had been recorded at fair value. Net Interest and Other Financial Costs Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Interest and other financial costs $ 179 $ 179 $ 162 (a) Interest income (10 ) (14 ) (79 )(a) Foreign currency gains (8 ) (103 ) (4 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 26 Net interest and other financial costs $ 161 $ 62 $ 105 (a) The year ended December 31, 2007 includes $27 million of interest expense and offsetting interest income related to the obligation to provide benefits for National Steel retirees that was settled in the fourth quarter of 2007. While the obligation was outstanding, U. S. Steel invested the amount due in short term investments and interest earned on those investments was also payable. The increase in net interest and other financial costs from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to lower foreign currency gains. The decrease in net interest and other financial costs from 2007 to 2008 was mainly due to higher foreign currency gains and the nonrecurrence of the $26 million charge in 2007 related to the early redemption of certain debt, partially offset by increased interest expense resulting from debt incurred to fund the acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and lower interest income. 65 Table of Contents The foreign currency gains include remeasurement effects on a U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan (the Intercompany Loan) from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary related to the 2007 acquisition of USSC that had an outstanding balance of $892 million at December 31, 2009, partially offset by losses on euro U.S. dollar derivatives activity, which we use to mitigate our foreign currency exposure. Volatility in the foreign currency markets could have significant implications for U. S. Steel going forward as a result of the foreign currency accounting remeasurement effects resulting from the Intercompany Loan and foreign currency gains and losses on derivatives activity. For additional information on U. S. Steels foreign currency exchange activity see Note 15 to the Financial Statements and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. Income Taxes The income tax benefit in 2009 was $439 million, compared to provisions of $853 million in 2008 and $218 million in 2007. The tax benefit in 2009 is primarily related to the net loss for the period. The effective tax benefit rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 is lower than the statutory rate because losses in Canada and Serbia, which are jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, do not generate a tax benefit for accounting purposes. The increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily reflected higher income and a higher effective tax rate as a result of a lower percentage of pre tax earnings generated by our European operations. The net domestic deferred tax asset was $731 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $802 million at December 31, 2008. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset from 2009 to 2008 was primarily a result of the remeasurement of the pension and other benefits plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements). At December 31, 2009, the foreign deferred tax assets recorded were $103 million, net of established valuation allowances of $575 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the euro, the Canadian dollar and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian deferred tax assets due to the absence of positive evidence at USSC to support the realizability of the assets. A full valuation allowance is provided for Serbian deferred tax assets because current projected investment tax credits, which must be used before net operating losses and credit carryforwards, are more than sufficient to offset future tax liabilities. As USSC and USSS generate sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $514 million for Canadian deferred tax assets and $46 million for Serbian deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009, would be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. For further information on income taxes see Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Net income Net loss in 2009 was $1,401 million compared to income of $2,112 million in 2008 and $879 million in 2007. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2009 decreased by $717 million from year end 2008 primarily due to lower inventories and lower receivables partially offset by higher cash balances (see Cash Flows). The decrease in inventories primarily resulted from lower quantities of higher cost raw materials. Raw material inventory quantities decreased as U. S. Steel maintained lower operating rates throughout 2009 and reduced raw material purchases as a cash conservation measure. Receivables decreased mainly due to lower sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, due primarily to lower average realized prices. These decreases were partially offset by the recognition of an income tax receivable representing a portion of the federal income tax refund that we expect to receive in 2010 as a result of carrying back our expected 2009 losses to prior years. Goodwill of $1,725 million increased by $116 million from year end 2008 mainly as goodwill attributable to the acqusition of Stelco were reported at higher amounts due to foreign currency translation effects. 66 Table of Contents Assets held for sale at December 31, 2009 consist of certain assets at Hamilton Works, primarily property, plant and equipment, and decreased from December 31, 2008 as a result of the sale of the majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. Total deferred income tax benefits at year end 2009 remained consistent with the balance at year end 2008. Deferred income tax benefits were primarily impacted by an increase in foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards offset by an increase in the valuation allowance, since a full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian and Serbian deferred tax assets, and a decrease in the deferred income tax benefit related to employee benefits. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Current liabilities at year end 2009 decreased by $304 million from year end 2009 due mainly to lower payroll and benefits payable resulting from the absence of accruals for profit based payments and lower accrued taxes resulting from reduced net income in 2009 compared to 2008. Several balance sheet accounts changed as a result of an improvement in the net funded status of our pension and other employee benefits plans. Employee benefits decreased by $624 million and the accumulated other comprehensive loss decreased by $541 billion. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The decrease in the accumulated other comprehensive loss was also due to foreign currency translation effects as a result of the weakening U.S. dollar versus the Euro and the Canadian dollar. The increase in long term debt from December 31, 2008 was mainly due to our public offering in May 2009 of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014, partially offset by the repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. See Liquidity. Common stock and Additional paid in capital increased by $27 million and $666 million, respectively, compared to year end 2008 primarily as a result of our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May 2009. See Liquidity. Cash Flows Net cash used in operating activities was $61 million in 2009 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1,658 million in 2008 and $1,732 million in 2007. This change was primarily related to a net loss of approximately $696 million after adjustments for noncash items in 2009 compared to income of approximately $2.6 billion after adjustments for noncash items in 2008. The favorable working capital change in 2009 of approximately $1.3 billion mainly reflected lower inventory and receivables levels, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items in 2008 compared to 2007 was more than offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency translation effects due mainly to the strengthening of the U. S. dollar and unfavorable working capital effects (excluding the 2007 acquisitions). The unfavorable working capital change in 2008 mainly reflected higher inventory levels and the repurchase of receivables, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities for 2009 was increased and net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 and 2007 was reduced by employee benefits payments as shown in the following table. 67 Table of Contents Employee Benefits Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ 140 $ 140 $ 140 Required contributions to other defined benefit pension plans 79 73 23 Other employee benefits payments not funded by trusts 285 236 213 Contributions to trusts for retiree health care and life insurance(a) 12 228 498 Payments to a multiemployer pension plan 58 33 30 Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts 84 29 17 Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ 658 $ 739 $ 921 (a) Includes $143 million in 2008 and $468 million in 2007 for a company contribution to U. S. Steels trust for retiree health care and life insurance fulfilling the Companys obligation under an agreement with the USW regarding benefits for certain former National Steel employees. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and healthcare by the end of 2011. Capital expenditures variable interest entities was $147 million in 2009 and $161 million in 2008. This primarily reflects spending by Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) for a non recovery coke plant to supply Granite City Works. This spending is consolidated in our financial results but is funded by Gateway and, therefore, is completely offset by amounts included in distributions from noncontrolling interests, which is included in cash flow from financing activities. 68 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2009 of $472 million consisted largely of non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long term strategic importance, as we substantially reduced our capital spending from the original plan of $740 million to conserve liquidity. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $338 million in 2009included spending development of an enterprise resourceplanning (ERP) system, non discretionary environmentalprojects, maintenance on the No. 14 blast furnace at GaryWorks and cokemaking projects at Granite City Works andthe Clairton Plant, including the construction of acogeneration facility at Granite City Works. USSEexpenditures of $113 million included spending at USSK forthe maintenance of the No.3 blast furnace, a coke oven gasdesulphurization project and spending for development of theERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $465 million in 2008 included spending for modernization of our cokemaking facilities, including expenditures for construction of a cogeneration facility at Granite City Works, development of an ERP system and replacement of open pit mining equipment at our iron ore operations USSE expenditures of $210 million included spending at USSK for the reline of the No.1 blast furnace, for replacement of electrical power transformers and to upgrade a continuous caster, and spending for development of the ERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $418 million in 2007 included spending for development of an ERP system, blast furnace stove replacements at Granite City Works and Great Lakes Works, coke oven thru wall repairs primarily at our Clairton Plant and open pit mining equipment and an environmental project at our iron ore operations. USSE expenditures of $215 million included spending at USSK for an air emission reduction project and a new automotive quality galvanizing line, spending at USSS for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace, and spending for development of an ERP system. Construction of the new galvanizing line was completed in February 2007. 69 Table of Contents U. S. Steels contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2009, totaled $152 million. Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to total approximately $530 million and remain focused largely on environmental and other infrastructure projects. We continue to evaluate investments of long term strategic importance, including projects to invest in production of coke and coke substitutes, given that some of our existing coke batteries are approaching the end of their useful lives, to reduce coke requirements in Serbia through blast furnace coal injection, to enhance our Tubular operations in order to more efficiently serve customers increased focus on shale natural gas resources and to allow us to increase our participation in the automotive market as vehicle emission and safety requirements become more stringent. In light of the significant capital commitment that such projects would entail over the next several years, we may seek to secure some long term funding for such projects and general corporate purposes prior to committing to such projects. The preceding statement concerning expected 2010 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, ability to secure long term funding, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, receipt of necessary permits and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Z Line Company reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of pickle lines reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. reflected $2,050 million paid at closing, net of cash acquired of $71 million; plus $14 million of transaction costs to acquire all of the outstanding shares. Acquisition of Stelco Inc. reflected $1,237 million paid to acquire all of the outstanding stock and stock equivalents, $785 million paid to retire substantially all of the outstanding debt and $34 million paid to Stelcos main pension plans, net of cash acquired of $32 million; plus $13 million of transaction costs. Disposal of assets in 2009 reflected pre tax cash proceeds of approximately $300 million from the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E and $36 million from the sale of emissions allowances at U. S. Steel Koice (USSK). Restricted cash in 2009 primarily reflected collateral required on previously unsecured obligations. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2008 primarily reflected amounts drawn against a USSK 200 million three year revolving credit facility, the proceeds of which were used to reduce the Intercompany Loan (see Liquidity), as well as borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Repayments of revolving credit facilities in 2008 reflected repayment of borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Common stock issued in 2009 resulted from our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2009 resulted primarily from our public offering in May of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014. Also in 2009, we issued $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds (ERBs), maturing from 2017 to 2030. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the issuance of $300 million principal amount of 5.65% Senior Notes due 2013, $450 million principal amount of 70 Table of Contents 6.05% Senior Notes due 2017, $350 million principal amount of 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 and $500 million principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018; and our entrance into two $500 million term loans and a $400 million term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2009 primarily reflected repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. Also in 2009, we completed the refunding of $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds. See Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2008 primarily reflected payments on our term loans, including the early retirement of $300 million of our three year term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the early redemption of $378 million of 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010, the early redemption of $49 million of 10% Senior Quarterly Income Debt Securities due 2031 and the repayment of a $400 million term loan. Common stock repurchased in 2008 and 2007 totaled 2.0 million shares and 1.2 million shares, respectively. Our share repurchase program was originally authorized in July 2005. In 2006, our Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2009, 4.4 million shares remained authorized for repurchase. In late 2008, we suspended repurchases under this program as part of our reaction to the difficult global economic environment. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock 4th Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 1st Qtr. 2009 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.30 2008 $ 0.30 $ 0.30 $ 0.25 $ 0.25 2007 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 Liquidity The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2009: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,218 Amount available under $750 Million Credit Facility(b) 638 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 93 Amounts available under USSS credit facilities 55 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,504 (b) As of December 31, 2009, there were no amounts drawn on the Amended Credit Agreement and inventory levels supported the full $750 million of the facility. Since availability was greater than $112.5 million, compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio was not applicable. However, based on the most recent four quarters, as of December 31, 2009, we would not meet the fixed charge coverage ratio if we were to borrow more than $637.5 million. Therefore, we reduced the availability reflected by $112.5 million. 71 Table of Contents (a) Excludes $20 million, $20 million and $27 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, of cash primarily related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership (Partnership) because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. On October 31, 2008, we acquired the equity interests in the Partnership that we did not wholly own. Excludes $1 million of cash at December 31, 2008 related to our variable interest entities. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment and restatement of its $750 million Credit Agreement dated May 11, 2007 (Amended Credit Agreement) with a group of lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (Agent). U. S. Steel simultaneously entered into a security agreement with the Agent (Security Agreement) providing for a security interest in the majority of its domestic inventory. The Amended Credit Agreement established a borrowing base formula, which limits the amounts U. S. Steel can borrow to a certain percent of the value of certain domestic inventory less specified reserves, and eliminates the previous financial covenants that consisted of interest and leverage coverage ratios. The Amended Credit Agreement contains a new financial covenant requiring U. S. Steel to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (defined as consolidated EBITDA less certain capital expenditures and cash income tax expense to certain fixed charges) of at least 1.10 to 1.00 for the most recent four consecutive quarters when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million. The Amended Credit Agreement includes revised pricing and other customary terms and conditions, and will expire on May 11, 2012. For further information regarding the Amended Credit Agreement and Security Agreement, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) that provides up to $500 million of liquidity and letters of credit depending upon the number of eligible domestic receivables generated by U. S. Steel. The commitments under the RPA expire in September 2010. Domestic trade accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. If U. S. Steel decides to access this facility, USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables and if any of them are unable to fund such purchases, two banks are committed to do so. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into agreements which amended the RPA. These agreements increase certain reserve factors and percentages, provide for a termination event if there is a change of control of U. S. Steel, amend the definition of Eligible Receivables, change certain performance triggers and make conforming and clarifying changes. 72 Table of Contents The RPA may be terminated on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, failure by U. S. Steel to make payments under our material debt obligations and any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. For further information regarding the agreements, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. On May 4, 2009, U. S. Steel completed a public offering of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014 and 27,140,000 shares of its Common Stock. U. S. Steel received net proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion and used $655 million to repay all amounts outstanding under its three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Convertible Notes was $863 million. On December 11, 2009, USSK entered into a 10 million (approximately $14 million at December 31, 2009) unsecured revolving credit facility as the sole obligor. The facility expires January 2011. The facility bears interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contains other customary terms and conditions. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the facility. At December 31, 2009, USSK had no borrowings against its 40 million, 20 million and 10 million unsecured credit facilities (which approximated $101 million) but had $8 million of customs and other guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $93 million. At December 31, 2009, USSK had 200 million (approximately $288 million) fully drawn against a 200 million unsecured credit facility. USSK is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The 10 million facility expires January 2011, the 200 million facility expires July 2011, the 40 million facility expires October 2012 and the 20 million facility expires December 2012. During 2009, USSS amended its secured credit facility agreements to limit availability to the value of USSS inventory of finished and semi finished goods. These facilities include an 800 million Serbian dinar overdraft facility and a 40 million revolving credit facility (together approximately $69 million). USSS is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The facilities expire August 2010. At December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings against these facilities and availability was 39 million (approximately $55 million). On May 21, 2007, U. S. Steel issued a total of $1.1 billion of senior notes consisting of $350 million at 6.65 percent due 2037, $450 million at 6.05 percent due 2017, and $300 million at 5.65 percent due 2013, (collectively, the Senior Notes). The Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Notes was $1.1 billion. On December 10, 2007, U. S. Steel issued $500 million of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018 (the 2018 Senior Notes). The 2018 Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the 2018 Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. As of December 31, 2009, the principal amount outstanding under the 2018 Senior Notes was $500 million. We use surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. The use of some forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $150 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2009. Increases in these commitments which use collateral are reflected in restricted cash on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 73 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, in the event of a change in control of U. S. Steel, debt obligations totaling $2,462 million, which includes the Senior Notes and the Senior Convertible Notes, may be declared immediately due and payable. In such event, U. S. Steel may also be required to either repurchase the leased Fairfield slab caster for $45 million or provide a letter of credit to secure the remaining obligation. In the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, obligations of $354 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases, as well as $26 million relating to an operating lease, may be declared immediately due and payable. The guarantees of the indebtedness of unconsolidated entities of U. S. Steel totaled $11 million at December 31, 2009. In the event that any default related to the guaranteed indebtedness occurs, U. S. Steel has access to its interest in the assets of the investee to reduce its potential losses under the guarantee. U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $140 million to the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in both 2009 and 2008. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions of similar amounts in 2010 or later periods in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory contributions in later years. The contributions actually required will be greatly influenced by the level of voluntary contributions, the performance of pension fund assets in the financial markets, the elective use or disavowal of existing credit balances in future periods and various other economic factors and actuarial assumptions that may come to influence the level of the funded position in future years. The 2008 Collective Bargaining Agreements (see Note 17) require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions during the contract period to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance. This contribution is in addition to an annual $10 million required contribution to the same trust that continues from an earlier agreement. Under this earlier agreement, a $20 million contribution is required if the Company does not contribute at least $75 million to its main pension plan in the prior year. During 2008, the Company made $85 million in contributions to the trust under these agreements, as well as a $143 million contribution to cover some of the health and life benefits for certain retirees of National Steel Corporation. During the first quarter of 2009, the Company made a $10 million contribution to this trust. In April 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the annual $75 million mandatory contributions due in 2009 and the $10 million contribution due in January 2010. Further, the USW has agreed to permit us to use all or part of the $75 million contribution made in 2008 to pay current retiree health care and life insurance claims, subject to a make up contribution in 2013. Through December 31, 2009, none of the 2008 contribution funds have been used by the Company. In conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco, now USSC (see Note 4), U. S. Steel assumed the pension plan funding agreement (the Pension Agreement) that Stelco had entered into with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Province) on March 31, 2006 that covers USSCs four main pension plans. The Pension Agreement requires minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and additional annual contributions for benefit improvements, which currently are limited to the union retiree indexing provisions. The defined annual contributions will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. In its acquisition of Stelco on October 31, 2007, U. S. Steel assumed liability for a note issued to the Province of Ontario (Province Note) (see Note 4 to the Financial Statements). The face amount of the Province Note is C$150 million (approximately $142 million at December 31, 2009) and is payable on December 31, 2015. The Province Note is unsecured and is subject to a 75 percent discount if the solvency deficiencies in the four main USSC pension plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements) are eliminated on or before the maturity date. 74 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2009, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Long term debt (including interest) and capital leases(a) $ 4,954 $ 202 $ 943 $ 1,414 $ 2,395 Operating leases(b) $ 173 40 59 34 40 Unconditional purchase obligations(c) $ 11,540 4,442 2,627 1,305 3,166 Capital commitments(d) $ 152 114 38 Environmental commitments(d) $ 203 17 186 (e) Steelworkers Pension Trust $ 286 (f) 54 113 119 (f) (f) Pensions(g) $ 451 83 153 145 70 Other benefits(h) $ 1,940 (i) 415 880 645 (i) Unrecognized tax positions $ 106 106 (e) Total contractual obligations $ 19,805 $ 5,367 $ 4,813 $ 3,662 $ 5,963 (a) See Note 16 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Amounts exclude subleases. (c) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. Additionally, includes coke and steam purchase commitments related to a coke supply agreement with Gateway Energy & Coke Company LLC (See Note 18). (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Timing of potential cash flows is not reasonably determinable. (f) While It is difficult to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, which expire in 2012, projected amounts shown through 2014 assume that the current $2.65 contribution rate per hour will apply. (g) Amounts shown represent projected cash requirements for USSC pension plans, most of which relates to a funding scheme for USSCs four main plans, whereby under an agreement with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Pension Agreement), USSC is responsible for minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and smaller annual contributions for benefit improvements related to prior cost of living adjustments. The Pension Agreement will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015 when minimum funding requirements under the Pension Benefits Act will resume. U.S. dollar equivalents of contributions are based on foreign exchange rates as of December 31, 2009 and shown projected through 2015. (h) Excludes profit based payments that may be required through September 1, 2012, pursuant to the provisions of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments that may be required. (i) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for retiree medical and retiree life benefit obligations which require the use of corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2010 through 2014 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and include mandatory contributions to the USW VEBA trust of $75 million in 2010 and $85 million in both 2011 and 2012. Projected amounts do not reflect optional drawdowns from the USW VEBA trust if U. S. Steel decides to utilize certain options available under its agreements with the USW. Amounts to be used from the VEBA trust will be determined in 2010 and later years. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the asset trust mix, medical escalation rates and company decisions or restrictions related to our trusts for retiree healthcare and life insurance that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Due to these factors, amounts shown above could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. 75 Table of Contents Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table except for the contributions required for USSCs defined benefit pension plans. (See footnote (g) of the above table). U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and other benefits during 2010 and 2011. U. S. Steel may make voluntary contributions in 2010 or later periods to the main defined benefit pension plan in the United States in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory required contributions in later years. In addition to the USSC amounts included in the above table, U. S. Steel expects to make cash payments of $15 million to other pension plans not funded by trusts. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2009, and the effect such commitments could have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 122 $ 109 $ $ $ 13 (c) Surety bonds(a) 18 18 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 33 33 (c) Marathon Oil Corporation(a)(b) 26 26 Total commercial commitments $ 199 $ 109 $ 26 $ $ 64 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) Reflects the amount of U. S. Steels operating lease obligations that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. Our major cash requirements in 2010 are expected to be for capital expenditures, employee benefits and working capital requirements. We finished 2009 with $1.2 billion of available cash. As business conditions recover, our working capital requirements will likely increase and we may need to draw upon our credit facilities for necessary cash. Funding under the RPA and the Amended Credit Agreement is based on a pool of eligible domestic receivables and domestic inventory, respectively, both of which have declined as a result of lower orders and our efforts to reduce working capital. A sudden increase in orders could require a significant amount of investment in working capital. Should we experience a significant increase in orders or an unexpected need for funds that cannot be met with available cash and our liquidity facilities, we may need to access the capital markets. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy our obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Our opinion regarding liquidity is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than recent levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Debt and Senior Convertible Notes Ratings The ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt by Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) are BB and Ba3, respectively. On January 27, 2010, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) lowered its ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt from BBB to BB+ and revised its outlook to stable. Any further downgrades could reduce our access to the capital markets and increase our financing costs. 76 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, a portion of the labor force used by the investees is provided by U. S. Steel, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. In September 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utilities at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a cogeneration facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. U. S. Steel is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay annual capacity and operating and maintenance fees. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, which was effective January 1, 2004. During the initial 5 year period, U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that were annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Other guarantees, indemnifications and take or pay arrangements are discussed in Notes 18 and 28 to the Financial Statements. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations and similar obligations in Europe and Canada, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent that these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that our major North American, and many European, integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that our relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills, some foreign steel producers (particularly in developing economies such as China) and producers of materials which compete with steel, all of which may not be required to incur equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to our prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Many of our competitors do not have similar historical liabilities. Our U. S. facilities are subject to the U.S. environmental standards, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. 77 Table of Contents USSC is subject to the environmental laws of Canada, which are comparable to environmental standards in the United States. Environmental regulation in Canada is an area of shared responsibility between the federal government and the provincial governments, which in turn delegate certain matters to municipal governments. Federal environmental statutes include the federal Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 and the Fisheries Act. Various provincial statutes regulate environmental matters such as the release and remediation of hazardous substances; waste storage, treatment and disposal; and air emissions. As in the United States, Canadian environmental laws (federal, provincial and local) are undergoing revision and becoming more stringent. The Canadian and Ontario governments have identified a sediment deposit in Hamilton Harbor near USSCs Hamilton Works for remediation, which the regulatory agencies estimated several years ago will require expenditures of approximately C$90 million (approximately $85 million). The national and provincial governments have each allocated C$30 million (approximately $28 million) for this project and they have stated that they will be looking for local sources, including industry, to fund the remaining one third. USSC has committed C$7 million (approximately $7 million) as its contribution. Additional contributions may be sought. USSK is subject to the environmental laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). A related law of the EU commonly known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, Regulation 1907/2006) requires the registration of certain substances that are produced in the EU or imported into the EU. USSK pre registered various substances during the six month pre registration period that ended November 30, 2008, both on its own behalf and on behalf of U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries that may be shipping products into the EU. USSK is compliant with REACH and intends to register its substances by the applicable deadlines to remain in compliance and be able to continue its businesses without material change. USSS is subject to the environmental laws of Serbia. Under the terms of the acquisition in 2003, USSS is responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study in June 2004, which was submitted to the Government of Serbia. During 2008 and 2009, USSS spent approximately $50 million to reduce air particulate emissions and undertake other environmental projects pursuant to an agreement with the Serbian government. Many nations, including all where we operate, have or are considering the regulation of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Regulation of CO2 emissions is relevant to the steel industry and U. S. Steel. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States House of Representatives has passed a bill, a bill has been introduced to the Senate and the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified CO2 as a harmful gas. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 North America: Capital $ 28 $ 44 $ 21 Compliance Operating & maintenance 294 409 278 Remediation(a) 19 27 28 Total North America $ 341 $ 480 $ 327 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 55 $ 51 Compliance Operating & maintenance 16 17 18 Remediation(a) 7 18 7 Total USSE $ 90 $ 90 $ 76 Total U. S. Steel $ 431 $ 570 $ 403 (a) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. 78 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 20 percent of total capital expenditures in 2009, 11 percent in 2008 and 10 percent in 2007. Environmental compliance expenditures represented three percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2009 and two percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2008 and 2007. Remediation spending during 2007 through 2009 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at our Fairless Plant and Lorain Tubular Operations. RCRA corrective action programs have been initiated at Gary Works, Fairfield Works and USS POSCO Industries. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. The following table shows activity with respect to environmental remediation liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 410. Environmental Remediation Liabilities (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Beginning Balance $ 162 $ 142 Plus: Additions 57 37 Less: Payments (16 ) (17 ) Ending Balance $ 203 $ 162 New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2010. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $168 million in 2010, $89 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2010 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2011, including $26 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at USSC assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic 79 Table of Contents downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active asbestoscases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional details concerning asbestos litigation see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel will vigorously defend these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Outlook for First Quarter 2010 We expect to report an overall operating loss in first quarter 2010 as gradually improving business conditions begin to be reflected in our operating results. We continue to experience improved order rates from several of our end markets. Automotive, service center, converter and appliance customer order rates in North America and Europe are at or near their highest levels in the last twelve months, while in other markets, such as construction, demand remains soft, but due to the low levels of inventory and the anticipated seasonal increases in activity at the end of the first quarter, our construction order book remains stable for both North America and Europe. A gradually strengthening economy should result in improvements in real demand, while apparent demand will likely be positively influenced by the restocking of the manufacturing supply chain, which we believe is under way. Relatively low levels of flat rolled product imports, if continued, are also expected to support improved order rates. Our Tubular operations are also continuing to experience favorable demand trends, most notably in alloy product at our welded operations in East Texas. At the same time, spot market prices are increasing across all of our segments in response to increased order rates and global raw material cost pressures. We continue to believe that the U.S. and global economies are in the early stages of a gradual recovery. While we are becoming more optimistic, primarily due to improvements we are starting to see in the manufacturing sector, we remain cautious in our outlook for end user demand. 80 Table of Contents Flat rolled results for first quarter 2010 are expected to improve from fourth quarter 2009. The benefits of increases in average realized prices and shipments, efficiencies from increased operating rates and reduced facility repair and maintenance costs are expected to be partially offset by the absence of approximately $55 million of favorable effects from LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Average realized prices are expected to increase from fourth quarter 2009 as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. Increases in our index based contract prices would be realized later as higher published market price assessments enter the index calculations for future periods. We are currently making steel at six of our seven North American steelmaking locations, with the exception being our Lake Erie Works, which represents approximately ten percent of our annual Flat rolled raw steel capability. We expect to complete maintenance work on our largest blast furnace, the #14 Blast Furnace at Gary Works, late in the first quarter and have all available capacity in operation at these six locations before the end of the quarter. Overall, raw steel capability utilization rates are expected to increase from the fourth quarter of 2009. First quarter 2010 results for USSE are expected to be comparable to fourth quarter 2009 as the benefits of increased shipments and operating efficiencies are expected to be offset by higher raw material costs. Euro based transaction prices are expected to be slightly higher than the fourth quarter as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to be lower due to foreign currency translation effects. We completed maintenance work on the #3 Blast Furnace at USSK in early February and we are currently operating all five of USSEs blast furnaces. We expect our Tubular operations to remain profitable in the first quarter. However, results are expected to decrease from the fourth quarter as the benefits of increased shipments are expected to be offset by increased costs as we continue to increase production to meet increased order rates, as well as the absence of $10 million of favorable fourth quarter items related to favorable effects of LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Seamless and welded tubular product prices are expected to improve throughout the quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to decrease as compared to the fourth quarter due to a higher proportion of welded tubular product shipments. We expect increased operating rates at all of our pipe facilities in the first quarter, most notably our welded pipe facility in East Texas. These expected increases should also benefit our Flat rolled operations that supply substrate requirements to our welded pipe facilities. Accounting Standards In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (FAS 167). FAS 167 is a revision to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, and amends the consolidation guidance for variable interest entities. Additionally, FAS 167 will require additional disclosures about involvement with variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure due to that involvement. FAS 167 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 167 will result in the deconsolidation of certain of our current variable interest entities, including, Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC due to the addition of the power criteria in paragraph 14 of FAS 167. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 810, Consolidations Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities, to incorporate FAS 167. In June 2009, the FASB issued FAS No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets (FAS 166). FAS 166 is a revision to FAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, and will require more information about transfer of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and enhanced disclosures when companies have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. Additionally, FAS 166 eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity. FAS 166 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 166 will result in any Receivables Purchase Agreement transactions being accounted for as secured borrowing transactions as of January 1, 2010. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, to incorporate FAS 166. See note 19 for further details of our accounts receivable facility. 81 Table of Contents Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage our market and exchange rate risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain commodity or currency transactions. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the transaction is settled. Once the transaction is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. For further information regarding derivative instruments see Notes 1 and 15 to the Financial Statements. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, through USSE and USSC, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the euro, the Serbian dinar and the Canadian dollar. U. S. Steel historically has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. U. S. Steel has not elected to use hedge accounting for these contracts. Foreign currency derivative instruments have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in net interest and other financial costs. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sales contracts for U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $185 million and $363 million, respectively). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2009 euro forward rates would result in a $19 million charge to income. The fair value of our derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs, which are defined as significant other observable inputs. The inputs used include quotes from counterparties that are corroborated with market sources. Future foreign currency impacts will depend upon changes in currencies, the extent to which we engage in derivatives transactions and the balance of the Intercompany Loan. The amount and timing of such borrowings or repayments on the Intercompany Loan will depend upon profits and cash flows of our international operations, future international investments and financing activities, all of which will be impacted by market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices and foreign exchange rates. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of our business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and zinc, tin and other nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for our products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel has made forward physical purchases to manage exposure to price risk related to the purchases of natural gas and certain non ferrous metals used in the production process. Historically, the forward physical purchase contracts for natural gas and nonferrous metals have qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 815. However, 82 Table of Contents due to reduced natural gas consumption in 2009, we net settled some of our excess natural gas purchase contracts for certain facilities. Therefore, the remaining contracts for natural gas at those facilities no longer met the exemption criteria and were therefore subject to mark to market accounting. As of December 31, 2009, there are no longer natural gas purchase contracts subject to mark to market accounting. Fixed price forward physical purchase contracts entered into for 2010 to partially manage our exposure to natural gas price risk qualify for the normal purchases normal sales exemption. The fair value of our natural gas derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs. The inputs used include forward prices derived from the New York Mercantile Exchange. A 10 percent decrease in natural gas prices for open derivative instruments as of December 31, 2009, would not result in a material charge to income. U. S. Steel held commodity contracts for natural gas that qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption with a total notional value of approximately $44 million at December 31, 2009. Total commodity contracts for natural gas represent approximately 12 percent of our expected North American natural gas requirements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of our non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent increase/decrease in year end 2009 and 2008 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase inFair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 26 $ 0 $ 23 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 4,004 $ 172 $ 2,650 $ 106 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008. (d) For additional information see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on the yield on our public debt where available or current borrowing rates available for financings with similar terms and maturities. For additional information see Note 16 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of our debt portfolio would unfavorably affect our results and cash flows only to the extent that we elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt included 200 million ($288 million) of borrowing under a floating rate revolving credit facility, the fair value of which is not affected by interest rate declines. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 83 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. U. S. Steel is subject to foreign currency exchange risks as a result of its European and Canadian operations. USSEs revenues are primarily in euros and its costs are primarily in U.S. dollars, euros and Serbian dinars. USSCs revenues and costs are denominated in both Canadian and U.S. dollars. In addition, the acquisition of USSC was funded from the United States and through the reinvestment of undistributed foreign earnings from USSE, creating intercompany monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities involved, which can impact income when they are remeasured at the end of each quarter. An $892 million U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary was the primary exposure at December 31, 2009. Facilities and Locations Flat rolled Except for the Fairfield pipe mill, the operating results of all the facilities within U. S. Steels integrated steel mills in North America are included in Flat rolled. These facilities include Gary Works, Great Lakes Works, Mon Valley Works, Granite City Works, Lake Erie Works, Fairfield Works and Hamilton Works. The operating results of U. S. Steels coke and iron ore pellet operations and many equity investees in North America are also included in Flat rolled. Gary Works, located in Gary, Indiana, has annual raw steel production capability of 7.5 million tons. Gary Works has three coke batteries, four blast furnaces, six steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit and four continuous slab casters. Gary Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells coke by products. Finishing facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, three temper mills, a double cold reduction line, four annealing facilities, two tin coating lines and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets and tin mill products. Gary Works also produces strip mill plate. The Midwest Plant and East Chicago Tin are operated as part of Gary Works. The Midwest Plant, located in Portage, Indiana, processes hot rolled bands and produces tin mill products and hot dip galvanized, cold rolled and electrical lamination sheets. Midwest facilities include a pickling line, two cold reduction mills, two temper mills, a double cold reduction mill, two annealing facilities, two hot dip galvanizing lines, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. 15 Table of Contents East Chicago Tin is located in East Chicago, Indiana and produces tin mill products. Facilities include a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, two annealing facilities, a temper mill, a tin coating line and a tin free steel line. Great Lakes Works, located in Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan, has annual raw steel production capability of 3.8 million tons. Great Lakes facilities include three blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, three annealing facilities, a temper mill, an electrolytic galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets. Mon Valley Works consists of the Edgar Thomson Plant, located in Braddock, Pennsylvania; the Irvin Plant, located in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania; the Fairless Plant, located in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania; and the Clairton Plant, located in Clairton, Pennsylvania. Mon Valley Works has annual raw steel production capability of 2.9 million tons. Facilities at the Edgar Thomson Plant include two blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit and a slab caster. Irvin Plant facilities include a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, a cold reduction mill, three annealing facilities, a temper mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. The Fairless Plant operates a hot dip galvanizing line. Principal products from Mon Valley Works include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, as well as coke and coke by products produced at the Clairton Plant. The Clairton Plant is comprised of nine coke batteries. Almost all of the coke produced is consumed by U. S. Steel facilities or swapped with other domestic steel producers. Coke by products are sold to the chemicals and raw materials industries. Granite City Works, located in Granite City, Illinois, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.8 million tons. Granite Citys facilities include two coke batteries, two blast furnaces, two steelmaking vessels, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a tandem cold reduction mill, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Granite City Works generally consumes all the coke it produces and sells coke by products. Principal products include hot rolled and coated sheets. Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) has constructed a coke plant to supply Granite City Works, which began operating in October 2009. We own and operate a newly constructed cogeneration facility that utilizes by products from the Gateway coke plant to generate heat and power. Lake Erie Works, located in Nanticoke, Ontario, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.6 million tons. Lake Erie Works facilities, which remains idled due to a work stoppage, include a coke battery, a blast furnace, two steelmaking vessels, a slab caster, a hot strip mill and three pickling lines. The pickling lines were acquired on August 29, 2008 and are included in Flat rolled results as of that date. Principal products include slabs and hot rolled sheets. Fairfield Works, located in Fairfield, Alabama, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.4 million tons. Fairfield Works facilities included in Flat rolled are a blast furnace, three steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, a slab caster, a rounds caster, a hot strip mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill, two temper/skin pass mills, a hot dip galvanizing line and a hot dip galvanizing/Galvalume&reg; line. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, and steel rounds for Tubular. Hamilton Works, located in Hamilton, Ontario, has annual raw steel production capability of 2.3 million tons. Hamilton Works facilities include a coke battery, a blast furnace, three steelmaking vessels, a slab caster, a combination slab/bloom caster, a bar mill, a pickling line, a cold reduction mill and two hot dip galvanizing lines and a galvanizing/galvannealing line. Principal products include slabs and cold rolled and coated sheets. We have iron ore pellet operations located at Mt. Iron (Minntac) and Keewatin (Keetac), Minnesota with annual iron ore pellet production capability of 22.4 million tons. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, these operations produced 8.5 million, 21.3 million and 20.8 million net tons of iron ore pellets, respectively. On February 1, 2010, USSC sold its 44.6 percent interest in the Wabush Mines Joint Venture (Wabush) for approximately $58 million. Wabush owns and operates iron ore mining and pellet facilities in Newfoundland and Labrador and Quebec, Canada. 16 Table of Contents U. S. Steel has a 14.7 percent ownership interest in Hibbing Taconite Company (Hibbing), which is based in Hibbing, Minnesota. Hibbings rated annual production capability is 9.1 million tons of iron ore pellets, of which our share is about 1.3 million tons, reflecting our ownership interest. Our share of 2009, 2008 and 2007 production was 0.3 million, 1.4 million and 0.2 million tons, respectively. We have a 15 percent ownership interest in Tilden Mining Company (Tilden), which is based in Ishpeming, Michigan. Tildens rated annual production capability is 8.7 million tons of iron ore pellets, of which our share is about 1.3 million tons, reflecting our ownership interest. Our share of 2009 production was a minimal amount and our share of 2008 and 2007 production was 1.2 million and 0.1 million tons, respectively. U. S. Steel owns a Research and Technology Center located in Munhall, Pennsylvania where we carry out a wide range of applied research, development and technical support functions. U. S. Steel also owns an automotive technical center in Troy, Michigan. This facility brings automotive sales, service, distribution and logistics services, product technology and applications research into one location. Much of U. S. Steels work in developing new grades of steel to meet the demands of automakers for high strength, light weight and formable materials is carried out at this location. U. S. Steel participates in a number of additional joint ventures that are included in Flat rolled, most of which are conducted through subsidiaries or other separate legal entities. All of these joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method. The significant joint ventures and other investments are described below. For information regarding joint ventures and other investments, see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steel and POSCO of South Korea participate in a 50 50 joint venture, USS POSCO Industries (USS POSCO), located in Pittsburg, California. The joint venture markets high quality sheet and tin mill products, principally in the western United States. USS POSCO produces cold rolled sheets, galvanized sheets, tin plate and tin free steel from hot bands principally provided by U. S. Steel and POSCO, which each provide about 50 percent of its requirements. USS POSCOs annual production capability is approximately 1.5 million tons. U. S. Steel and Kobe Steel, Ltd. of Japan participate in a 50 50 joint venture, PRO TEC Coating Company (PRO TEC). PRO TEC owns and operates two hot dip galvanizing lines in Leipsic, Ohio, which primarily serve the automotive industry. PRO TECs annual production capability is approximately 1.2 million tons. U. S. Steel supplies PRO TEC with all of its requirements of cold rolled sheets and markets all of its products. U. S. Steel and Severstal North America, Inc. participate in Double Eagle Steel Coating Company (DESCO), a 50 50 joint venture which operates an electrogalvanizing facility located in Dearborn, Michigan. The facility coats sheet steel with free zinc or zinc alloy coatings, primarily for use in the automotive industry. DESCO processes steel supplied by each partner and each partner markets the steel it has processed by DESCO. DESCOs annual production capability is approximately 870,000 tons. U. S. Steel and ArcelorMittal participate in the Double G Coatings Company, L.P. 50 50 joint venture (Double G), a hot dip galvanizing and Galvalume&reg; facility located near Jackson, Mississippi, which primarily serves the construction industry. Double G processes steel supplied by each partner and each partner markets the steel it has processed by Double G. Double Gs annual production capability is approximately 315,000 tons. U. S. Steel and Worthington Industries, Inc. (Worthington Industries) participate in Worthington Specialty Processing (Worthington), a joint venture with locations in Jackson, Canton and Taylor, Michigan in which U. S. Steel has a 49 percent interest. Worthington slits, cuts to length and presses blanks from steel coils to desired specifications. Worthingtons annual production capability is approximately 890,000 tons. USSC and ArcelorMittal Dofasco, Inc. participate in Baycoat Limited Partnership (Baycoat), a 50 50 joint venture located in Hamilton, Ontario. Baycoat applies a variety of paint finishes to flat rolled steel coils. Baycoats annual production capability is approximately 280,000 tons. D.C. Chrome Limited, a 50 50 joint venture between USSC and The Court Group of Companies Limited, operates a plant in Stony Creek, Ontario which textures and chromium plates work rolls for Hamilton Works and for other customers, and grinds and chromes steel shafts used in manlifts. 17 Table of Contents Chrome Deposit Corporation (CDC), a 50 50 joint venture between U. S. Steel and Court Holdings, reconditions finishing work rolls, which require grinding, chrome plating and or texturing. The rolls are used on rolling mills to provide superior finishes on steel sheets. CDC has seven locations across the United States, with all locations near major steel mills. Feralloy Processing Company (FPC), a joint venture between U. S. Steel and Feralloy Corporation, converts coiled hot strip mill plate into sheared and flattened plates for shipment to customers. U. S. Steel has a 49 percent interest. The plant, located in Portage, Indiana, has a temper mill linked to a cut to length leveling line. The line provides stress free, leveled product with a superior surface finish. FPC provides processing services to the joint venture partners and other steel consumers and service centers. FPCs annual production capability is approximately 275,000 tons. U. S. Steel, along with Feralloy Mexico, S.R.L. de C.V. and Mitsui & Co. (USA), Inc., participates in a joint venture, Acero Prime, S.R.L. de CV (Acero Prime). U. S. Steel has a 40 percent interest. Acero Prime operates in Mexico with facilities in San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, and a leased warehouse in Toluca. Acero Prime provides slitting, warehousing and logistical services. Acero Primes annual slitting capability is approximately 385,000 tons. USSE USSE consists of USSK and its subsidiaries and USSS. USSK operates an integrated facility in Koice, Slovakia, which has annual raw steel production capability of 5.0 million tons. This facility has two coke batteries, three blast furnaces, four steelmaking vessels, a vacuum degassing unit, two dual strand casters, a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, two cold reduction mills, three annealing facilities, a temper mill, a temper/double cold reduction mill, three hot dip galvanizing lines, two tin coating lines, three dynamo lines, a color coating line and two spiral welded pipe mills. Principal products include hot rolled, cold rolled and coated sheets, tin mill products and spiral welded pipe. USSK also has facilities for manufacturing heating radiators and refractory ceramic materials. In addition, USSK has a research laboratory which in conjunction with our Research and Technology Center supports efforts in cokemaking, electrical steels, design and instrumentation, and ecology. USSS has an integrated plant in Smederevo, Serbia which has annual raw steel production capability of 2.4 million tons. Facilities at this plant include two blast furnaces, three steelmaking vessels, two slab casters, a hot strip mill, two pickling lines, a cold reduction mill, two annealing facilities, a temper mill and a temper/double cold reduction mill. Other facilities include a tin mill in Sabac with one tin coating line, a limestone mine in Kucevo and a river port in Smederevo, all located in Serbia. Principal products include hot rolled and cold rolled sheets and tin mill products. Tubular Tubular manufactures seamless and welded oil country tubular goods (OCTG), standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing. Seamless products are produced on a mill located at Fairfield Works in Fairfield, Alabama, and on two mills located in Lorain, Ohio. The Fairfield mill has annual production capability of 750,000 tons and is supplied with steel rounds exclusively from Fairfield Works. The Fairfield mill has the capability to produce outer diameter (O.D.) sizes from 4.5 to 9.625 inches and has quench and temper, hydrotester, threading and coupling and inspection capabilities. The Lorain mills have combined annual production capability of 780,000 tons and use steel rounds supplied by Fairfield Works and external sources. Lorain #3 Mill has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 10.125 to 26 inches and has quench and temper, hydrotester, cutoff and inspection capabilities. Lorain #4 Mill has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 1.9 to 4.5 inches and has cut to length capabilities and uses Tubular Services in Houston for finishing. Texas Operations manufactures welded OCTG, standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing products. Texas Operations #1 Mill has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 7 to 16 inches. Texas Operations #2 Mill has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 1.088 to 7.15 inches. Both mills have quench and temper, hydrotester, 18 Table of Contents threading and coupling and inspection capabilities. Bellville Operations manufactures welded tubular products primarily for OCTG. Bellville Operations has the capability to produce O.D. sizes from 2.375 to 4.5 inches and has limited hydrotester and cutoff capabilities. Texas Operations and Bellville Operations have combined annual production capability of 1.0 million tons and use hot rolled products from Flat rolleds facilities. Welded products are also produced on a mill located in McKeesport, Pennsylvania, which is operated by a third party operator. The McKeesport mill has annual production capability of 315,000 tons and processes hot rolled bands from Mon Valley Works and other U. S. Steel locations. This mill has the capability to produce, hydrotest, cut to length and inspect O.D. sizes from 8.625 to 20 inches. Wheeling Machine Products supplies couplings used to connect individual sections of oilfield casing and tubing. It produces sizes ranging from 2.375 to 20 inches at three locations: Pine Bluff, Arkansas, Hughes Springs, Texas and Houston, Texas. Tubular Processing Services, located in Houston, Texas, provides thermal treating and end finishing services for oilfield production tubing. Tubular Threading and Inspection Services, also located in Houston, Texas, provides threading, inspection and storage services to the OCTG market. Fintube Technologies (Fintube), located in Tulsa, Oklahoma and Monterey, Mexico, manufactures specialty tubular products used in heat recovery technology applications. Fintube has a welded tube production mill, finning operations and an engineered products division. U. S. Steel also has a 50 percent ownership interest in Apolo Tubulars S.A. (Apolo), a Brazilian supplier of welded casing, tubing, line pipe and other tubular products. Apolos annual production capability is approximately 150,000 tons. In April 2007, U. S. Steel, POSCO and SeAH Steel Corporation, a Korean manufacturer of tubular products, formed United Spiral Pipe LLC to design, engineer and construct a manufacturing facility with annual production capability of 300,000 tons of spiral welded tubular products. U. S. Steel and POSCO each hold a 35 percent ownership interest in the joint venture, with the remaining 30 percent ownership interest being held by SeAH. The facility was commissioned in late 2009 and began operations in early 2010. Other Businesses U. S. Steels Other Businesses include transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations and engineering consulting services. On January 31, 2009, we completed the sale of a majority of the operating assets of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E) to a subsidiary of Canadian National Railway Company. Proceeds from the sale were approximately $300 million and U. S. Steel recorded a net gain of approximately $97 million, net of a $10 million pension curtailment loss, in the first quarter of 2009. The retained portion of EJ&E has been renamed Gary Railway Company. See Note 6 to the Financial Statements. In addition to Gary Railway Company in Indiana, U. S. Steel owns Lake Terminal Railroad Company in Ohio; Union Railroad Company and McKeesport Connecting Railroad Company in Pennsylvania; Birmingham Southern Railroad Company, Fairfield Southern Company, Inc., Mobile River Terminal Company, and Warrior and Gulf Navigation Company, all located in Alabama; Delray Connecting Railroad Company in Michigan and Texas & Northern Railroad Company in Texas; all of which comprise U. S. Steels transportation business. U. S. Steel owns, develops and manages various real estate assets, which include approximately 200,000 acres of surface rights primarily in Alabama, Illinois, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota and Pennsylvania. In addition, U. S. Steel participates in joint ventures that are developing real estate projects in Alabama, Maryland and Illinois. U. S. Steel also owns approximately 4,000 acres of land in Ontario, Canada, which could potentially be sold or developed. U. S. Steel has a 38 percent ownership interest in Leeds Retail Center, LLC, an entity established for the development of a 495,000 square foot retail outlet mall in Leeds, Alabama. 19 Table of Contents Met Chem Canada Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of U. S. Steel, is a company providing engineering consulting services in the mining and mineral processing sectors. Raw Materials and Energy As an integrated producer, U. S. Steels primary raw materials are iron units in the form of iron ore pellets and sinter ore, carbon units in the form of coal and coke (which is produced from coking coal) and steel scrap. U. S. Steels raw materials supply strategy consists of acquiring and expanding captive sources of these primary raw materials and entering into long term supply contracts. The amounts of such raw materials needed to produce a ton of steel will fluctuate based upon the specifications of the final steel products, the quality of raw materials and, to a lesser extent, differences among steel producing equipment. In broad terms, U. S. Steel estimates that it consumes about 1.4 tons of coal to produce one ton of coke and that it consumes approximately 0.4 tons of coke, 0.2 tons of steel scrap (40 percent of which is internally generated) and 1.3 tons of iron ore pellets to produce one ton of raw steel. At normal operating levels, we also consume approximately 5 mmbtus of natural gas per ton shipped. While we believe that these estimates are useful for planning purposes, substantial variations occur. They are presented in order to give a general sense of raw material and energy consumption related to steel production. Iron Ore The iron ore facilities at Minntac and Keetac contain an estimated 752 million short tons of recoverable reserves and our share of recoverable reserves at the Hibbing and Tilden joint ventures is 65 million short tons. Recoverable reserves are defined as the tons of product that can be used internally or delivered to a customer after considering mining and beneficiation or preparation losses. Minntac and Keetacs annual capability and our share of annual capability for the Hibbing and Tilden joint ventures total 25 million tons. With these facilities and amounts under long term supply contracts, the Flat rolled segment currently has the capability to supply all of its annual iron ore requirements at normal operating levels. USSE purchases substantially all of its iron ore requirements from outside sources, but has also received iron ore from U. S. Steels iron ore facilities in North America. We believe that supplies of iron ore adequate to meet USSEs needs are available at competitive market prices. The main sources of iron ore for USSE are Russia and Ukraine, with some coming from Brazil. Coking Coal All of U. S. Steels coal requirements for our cokemaking facilities are purchased from outside sources. U. S. Steel has entered into multi year contracts for substantially all of Flat rolleds coking coal requirements. Prices for these North American contracts for 2010 are set at what we believe are competitive market prices. Prices in the out years will be negotiated within set collars around a base price or on an annual basis at prevailing market prices. In Europe, U. S. Steel has entered into contracts for most of USSEs coking coal requirements for 2010. Prices for these European contracts are negotiated at defined intervals (no less than quarterly) with regional suppliers. We believe that supplies of coking coal adequate to meet our needs are available from outside sources at competitive market prices. The main sources of coking coal for Flat rolled are the United States and Canada; and for USSE include Poland, the Czech Republic, the United States, Canada, Russia and Ukraine. 20 Table of Contents Coke In North America, the Flat rolled segment operates cokemaking facilities at the Clairton Plant of Mon Valley Works, Gary Works, Granite City Works, Hamilton Works and Lake Erie Works. In Europe, the USSE segment operates cokemaking facilities at USSK. Blast furnace injection of coal, natural gas and self generated coke oven gas is also used at certain Flat rolled and USSE facilities to reduce coke usage. The increase in coke production in 2008 was mainly due to the inclusion of production at Lake Erie Works and Hamilton Works for the entire year following the USSC acquisition in 2007. The decrease in coke production in 2009 resulted from the temporary idling of cokemaking facilities at the Clairton Plant, Granite City Works, Hamilton Works and Lake Erie Works for part of the year as well as the shut down of three coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. Production had been decreasing over the last several years due mainly to the shut down of one of the coke batteries at Gary Works in 2005. Over the next five years, as some of our North American coke batteries approach the end of their expected useful lives, our production capability is likely to decrease absent additional investment in coke or coke substitute production facilities. We have taken a number of steps to ensure long term access to high quality coke for our blast furnaces. We continue to evaluate plans for new coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. We entered into a 15 year coke supply agreement with Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) in connection with its newly constructed 651,000 ton per year heat recovery coke plant which began operating in the fourth quarter of 2009 and is located at Granite City Works. Also, we continue to evaluate plans to construct one or more facilities utilizing state of the art technology to produce a carbon alloy material that would be used as a coke substitute. With Flat rolleds cokemaking facilities and the Gateway long term supply agreement, it currently has the capability to supply approximately 80 percent of its annual coke requirements at normal operating levels. Depending on production levels, we may purchase additional coke on the open market. To the extent that it is necessary or appropriate considering existing needs and or applicable transportation costs, coke is purchased from or swapped with suppliers or other end users. USSEs cokemaking facilities currently have the capability to supply approximately 60% of its annual coke requirements at normal operating levels. The remainder of USSEs needs is purchased from outside sources. The main sources of coke for USSE in 2010 are expected to be Poland, Ukraine, Russia, Bosnia, Hungary and the Czech Republic. Limestone All of Flat rolleds limestone requirements are purchased from outside sources. We believe that supplies of limestone adequate to meet Flat rolleds needs are readily available from outside sources at competitive market prices. The majority of USSEs limestone requirements are purchased from outside sources with a portion of USSSs raw limestone requirements coming from a limestone mine under our direct control. We believe that supplies of limestone adequate to meet USSEs needs are available from outside sources at competitive market prices. Zinc and Tin We believe that supplies of zinc and tin required to fulfill the requirements for Flat rolled and USSE are available from outside sources at competitive market prices. We routinely execute fixed price forward physical purchase contracts for a portion of our expected business needs in order to manage our exposure to the volatility of the zinc and tin markets. 21 Table of Contents Steel Scrap and Other Materials We believe that supplies of steel scrap and other alloying and coating materials required to fulfill the requirements for Flat rolled and USSE are available from outside sources at competitive market prices. Generally, approximately 40 percent of our steel scrap requirements is internally generated through normal operations. Natural Gas All of U. S. Steels natural gas requirements are purchased from outside sources. We believe that supplies adequate to meet Flat rolleds needs are available at competitive market prices. In order to partially manage our exposure to natural gas price increases as it relates to customers with fixed priced contracts as well as electricity costs from a generating facility located at one of our facilities, we routinely execute fixed price forward physical purchase contracts for natural gas. About 60 percent of our natural gas purchases in Flat rolled are based on bids solicited on a monthly basis from various vendors; the remainder is made daily or with fixed price forward physical purchase contracts. We believe that supplies adequate to meet USSEs needs are normally available at competitive market prices. However, both USSK and USSS experienced a supply curtailment of more than ten days in January 2009 related to Russias suspension of natural gas shipments to Europe. The supply from Russia and the transmission through Ukraine and the associated political tension may impact supply availability. Both Flat rolled and USSE use self generated coke oven and blast furnace gas to reduce consumption of natural gas. Industrial Gases U. S. Steel purchases its industrial gas requirements under long term contracts with various suppliers. Commercial Sales of Product U. S. Steel characterizes our sales as contract if sold pursuant to an agreement with defined volume and pricing and a duration of longer than three months, and as spot if sold without a defined volume and pricing agreement. In 2009 approximately 60 percent, 30 percent and 10 percent of sales by Flat rolled, USSE and Tubular, respectively, were contract sales. Some contract pricing agreements include fixed price while others are adjusted periodically based upon published prices of steel products or cost components. U. S. Steel does not consider sales backlog to be a meaningful measure since volume commitments in most contracts are based on each customers specific periodic requirements. Environmental Matters U. S. Steel maintains a comprehensive environmental policy overseen by the Corporate Governance and Public Policy Committee of the U. S. Steel Board of Directors. The Environmental Affairs organization has the responsibility to ensure that U. S. Steels operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that are in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The Executive Environmental Committee, which is comprised of officers of U. S. Steel, is charged with reviewing our overall performance with various environmental compliance programs. Also, U. S. Steel, largely through the American Iron and Steel Institute, the Canadian Steel Producers Association, the World Steel Association and European Confederation of Iron and Steel Industries (Eurofer), is involved in the promotion of cost effective environmental strategies through the development of appropriate air, water, waste and climate change laws and regulations at the local, state, national and international levels. U. S. Steels businesses in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act (CAA) with respect to air emissions; the Clean Water Act (CWA) with respect to water discharges; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and 22 Table of Contents disposal; and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances. In addition, all states where U. S. Steel operates have similar laws dealing with the same matters. These laws are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with existing laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable due in part to the fact that certain implementing regulations for these environmental laws have not yet been promulgated and in certain instances are undergoing revision. These environmental laws and regulations, particularly the CAA, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. USSC is subject to the environmental laws of Canada, which are comparable to environmental standards in the United States. Environmental regulation in Canada is an area of shared responsibility between the federal government and the provincial governments, which in turn delegate certain matters to municipal governments. Federal environmental statutes include the federal Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 and the Fisheries Act. Various provincial statutes regulate environmental matters such as the release and remediation of hazardous substances; waste storage, treatment and disposal; and air emissions. As in the United States, Canadian environmental laws (federal, provincial and local) are undergoing revisions and becoming more stringent. USSK is subject to the environmental laws of Slovakia and the EU. A related law of the EU commonly known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, Regulation 1907/2006) requires the registration of certain substances that are produced in the EU or imported into the EU. USSK pre registered various substances during the six month pre registration period that ended November 30, 2008, both on its own behalf and on behalf of U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries that may be shipping products into the EU. USSK is compliant with REACH and intends to register its substances by the applicable deadlines to remain in compliance and be able to continue its businesses without material change. USSS is subject to the environmental laws of Serbia. Under the terms of the acquisition in 2003, USSS is responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study in June 2004, which was submitted to the Government of Serbia. During 2008 and 2009, USSS spent approximately $50 million to reduce air particulate emissions and undertake other environmental projects pursuant to an agreement with the Serbian government. Many nations, including all where we operate, have or are considering the regulation of CO2 emissions. International negotiations to supplement or replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol are ongoing. Regulation of CO2 emissions is relevant to the steel industry and U. S. Steel. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The European Union has established greenhouse gas regulations. Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions as discussed below. In the United States, the House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act (also known as the Waxman Markey Bill) on June 26, 2009. Similar legislation is under consideration by the Senate in the form of a bill proposed by Senators Boxer and Kerry on September 30, 2009. These bills would establish a national cap and trade program (to be phased in beginning in 2012) that would require entities emitting greenhouse gases (or in some instances the producers of fuels that would result in such emissions) to present allowances that account for each ton of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emitted, subject to yearly national caps on overall emissions from covered sources. The bills include provisions that would grant limited relief, including the allocation of free allowances, for qualifying energy intensive and trade sensitive industries, for which iron and steel producers should qualify. It is uncertain when the Senate will act on these matters. If this or similar legislation is adopted, it could have far ranging economic and operational consequences for U. S. Steel. It is impossible to estimate the timing of final legislation or its impact on U. S. Steel, although it could be significant. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. The EPA has classified CO2 as a harmful gas. The EPA has implemented a new greenhouse gas emission inventory and reporting requirement for all facilities emitting 25,000 metric tons or more per year of CO2e greenhouse gases. The regulation requires facilities to collect information on CO2e and report emissions to the EPA starting in January of 2011, covering the 2010 calendar year. It is expected that most U. S. Steel facilities will be required to comply with the new reporting requirements. Since it was first proposed by the EPA, U. S. Steel has been undertaking preparations for meeting this requirement, and is evaluating the cost of compliance. 23 Table of Contents The EPA has also proposed new permitting requirements for facilities emitting 25,000 metric tons or more per year of CO2 based on requirements of the CAA. This proposal will be subject to public comment before being finalized. The EPA expects to have the new regulation in place by the first quarter of 2010. Evaluating the cost of compliance with this proposed regulation is not possible until the EPA has addressed all public comments. To comply with the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the European Commission (EC) has created an Emissions Trading System (ETS). Under the ETS, the EC establishes CO2 emissions limits for every EU member state and approves grants of CO2 emission allowances to individual emitting facilities pursuant to national allocation plans that are proposed by each of the member states. The allowances can be bought and sold by emitting facilities to cover the quantities of CO2 they emit in their operations. In July 2008, following approval by the EC of Slovakias national allocation plan for the 2008 2012 trading period (NAP II), Slovakia granted USSK more CO2 allowances per year than USSK received for the 2005 to 2007 trading period. Based on actual carbon emissions to date, we believe that USSK will have sufficient allowances for the NAP II period without purchasing additional allowances. During 2009, USSK entered into transactions to sell and swap a portion of our emissions allowances and recognized $36 million of gains related to these transactions. On April 26, 2007, Canadas federal government announced an Action Plan to Reduce Greenhouse Gases and Air Pollution (the Plan). The Plan would set mandatory reduction targets on all major greenhouse gas producing industries to achieve an absolute reduction of 150 megatonnes in greenhouse gas emissions from 2006 levels by 2020. On March 10, 2008, Canadas federal government published details of its Regulatory Framework for Industrial Greenhouse Gas Emissions (the Framework). The Plan and the Framework provide that facilities existing in 2004 will be required to cut their greenhouse gas emissions intensity by 18 percent below their 2006 baseline by 2010, with a further two percent reduction in each following year. The Framework provided that newer and future facilities would be subject to phased in two percent annual emissions intensity reduction obligations and clean fuel standards. Companies will be able to choose the most cost effective way to meet their targets from a range of options which include carbon trading, offsets and credit for early action (between 1992 and 2006). The Framework effectively exempts fixed process emissions of CO2, which could exclude certain iron and steel producing CO2 emissions from mandatory reductions. More recently, the federal government has indicated that it may reconsider its proposed intensity based approach in light of potential U.S. legislation which may impose emission caps and import duties on countries which do not have a comparable regime. On June 12, 2009, Canadas federal government released for comment two draft guides related to the establishment of an Offset System in Canada. These draft documents propose rules and provide guidance on the requirements and processes to create offset credits and the requirements and processes to verify the eligible greenhouse gas reductions achieved from an offset project. Canadas federal government has stated that, once in place, the Offset System will establish tradable credits and encourage cost effective domestic greenhouse gas reductions in areas that will not be covered by planned federal greenhouse gas regulations. In December 2007, the Ontario government announced its own Action Plan on Climate Change (the Ontario Action Plan). The Ontario Action Plan targets reductions in Ontario greenhouse gas emissions of six percent below 1990 levels by 2014, 15 percent below 1990 levels by 2020 and 80 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. In December 2008, Ontario launched a consultation process towards the development of a cap and trade system to be implemented as early as 2010. In May 2009, Ontario released proposed amendments to the Environmental Protection Act that would provide, if passed, the regulatory authority to set up a greenhouse gas cap and trade system. At the same time, the Ontario government also released a discussion paper, Moving Forward: A Greenhouse Gas Cap and Trade System for Ontario which (i) helps clarify the cap and trade approach being considered in Ontario and the different options for elements of the approach and (ii) seeks stakeholder input on various elements of the proposed cap and trade system. Comments were accepted until July 26, 2009. The Ontario government released a draft Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting regulation for public comment on October 7, 2009. The reporting regulation is intended to provide the foundation for Ontario to implement a cap and trade program for greenhouse gases. The Ontario government has indicated that it plans to develop a cap and trade system that aligns with other systems developing in North America, including in the United States. U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations which in recent years have been mainly for process changes in order to meet CAA obligations and similar obligations in Europe and Canada. In the future, additional 24 Table of Contents expenditures will be required to comply with CO2 emission requirements. Since it is difficult to predict what requirements will ultimately be imposed in the United States and Canada, it is difficult to estimate the likely impact on U. S. Steel but it could be substantial. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of U. S. Steels products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that our major North American and many European integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that its relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills, some foreign steel producers (particularly in developing economies such as China) and producers of materials which compete with steel, all of which may not be required to undertake equivalent costs in their operations. In particular, if the final requirements do not recognize the fact that the integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions, our competitive position relative to mini mills will be adversely impacted and our competitive position regarding producers in developing nations, such as China and India, will be harmed unless such nations require comensurate reductions in CO2 emissions. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to our prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Many of our competitors have fewer historical liabilities. For further information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Air The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a federally mandated operating permit program and civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. The CAA requires, among other things, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants through the development and promulgation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) Standards. The EPA has developed various industry specific MACT standards pursuant to this requirement. The CAA requires EPA to promulgate regulations establishing emission standards for each category of Hazardous Air Pollutants. EPA must also conduct risk assessments on each source category that is already subject to MACT standards and determine if additional standards are needed to reduce residual risks. The principal impact of the MACT standards on U. S. Steel operations includes those that are specific to cokemaking, ironmaking, steelmaking and iron ore processing. The emission limitations for ironmaking and steelmaking sources could become more stringent if EPAs residual risk analysis indicates that additional controls are necessary. EPA is required to complete this residual risk analysis by 2011. The impact of this risk analysis and any subsequent changes cannot be estimated at this time. U. S. Steels cokemaking facilities are subject to two categories of MACT standards. The first category applies to pushing and quenching. EPA is required to make a risk based determination for pushing and quenching emissions and determine whether additional emissions reductions are necessary from this process by 2011. EPA has yet to publish or propose any residual risk standards from these operations; therefore, the impact cannot be estimated at this time. The second category of MACT standards applying to coke facilities applies to emissions from charging, coke oven battery tops and coke oven doors. With regard to these standards, U. S. Steel chose to install more stringent controls than MACT on some of its batteries, called Lowest Achievable Emissions Reductions (LAER). Such LAER batteries are not required to comply with certain residual risk standards until 2020. Because the scope of these anticipated changes are distant and relatively uncertain, the magnitude of the impact of these anticipated changes cannot be estimated at this time. U. S. Steels iron ore processing operations are subject to the Taconite Iron Ore Processing MACT standards. These standards may change if EPA revises the MACT standards in response to a petition filed by an environmental advocacy group. In addition, EPA will make a risk based determination for taconite iron ore processing and determine whether additional emissions reductions are necessary from this process by 2011. EPA has yet to publish or propose any residual risk standards from these operations; therefore, the impact of any changes cannot be estimated at this time. 25 Table of Contents The CAA also requires the EPA to develop and implement National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for criteria pollutants, which include, among others, particulate matter and ozone. In 1997, EPA established 24 hour and annual standards for fine particles that are less than 2.5 micrometers in size and in 2006, EPA tightened the 24 hour standard but retained the annual standard. These standards were challenged and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, in American Farm Bureau Federation and National Pork Producers Council et al. v. EPA, 559 F. 3rd 512 (D.C. Cir. 2009), remanded the annual standards to the EPA for further consideration but allowed the 2006 24 hour standard to remain in effect. States are still required to demonstrate compliance with the 1997 fine particle standard by April 2010, with a possible extension to April 2015, but the annual standard could change based upon the remand noted above. If the standard is changed, states will be required to modify their state implementation plans (SIPs) to meet the new standard. On December 22, 2008, EPA designated areas in which U. S. Steel operates as nonattainment and unclassified/attainment for the 2006 fine particle standard. SIPs for the 2006 24 hour standard are due December 14, 2012, with attainment demonstrations with the 2006 standard expected to be made by 2014 or 2019, with extensions. It is anticipated that EPAs fine particle programs could result in significant costs to U. S. Steel. While the SIPs for the 1997 (current) annual standard were due in April 2008, many states and local agencies in which U. S. Steel facilities are located have not yet or are just now proposing SIPs. U. S. Steel is currently reviewing these drafts and proposed SIPs, but the impacts of the anticipated regulations cannot be determined at this time. Furthermore, it is impossible to estimate the magnitude of any costs associated with the SIPs for the 2006 24 hour standard or the remand of the annual standard since the state and federal agencies are still developing regulations for the programs and implementation for the 2006 24 hour standard. Demonstrating attainment with the 2006 24 hour standard is not expected until sometime between 2014 and 2019 and no new standard or associated timeline has been established for the annual standard. Effective May 2008, EPA lowered its ground level ozone air quality standards, which could affect sources of nitrogen oxide and volatile organic compounds, including coke plants, and iron and steel facilities. EPA is required to issue final designations of attainment, nonattainment and unclassifiable areas no later than March 2010 unless there is insufficient information to make these designation decisions. In that case, EPA will issue designations no later than March 2011. States must submit SIPs outlining how they will reduce pollution to meet the standards by a date that is no later than three years after EPAs final designations. If EPA issues designations in 2010 or 2011, these plans would be due no later than 2013 or 2014, respectively. States are required to meet the standards by deadlines that may vary based on the severity of the problem in the area. It is anticipated that the ozone NAAQS revisions could result in significant costs to U. S. Steel; however, it is impossible to estimate the magnitude of these costs at this time since the implementation dates are unknown and distant. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts our operations to be in compliance with such permits. For additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste 26 Table of Contents disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the former Duluth Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred and it is possible that additional sites will be identified that require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had approximately 24,000 employees in North America and approximately 19,000 in Europe. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) that expire in September 2012. The 2008 CBAs resulted in wage increases ranging from $0.65 to $1.00 per hour as of the effective date. Each subsequent September 1 thereafter during the contract term, employees will receive a four percent wage increase. The 2008 CBAs also require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance during the contract period. In early 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the 2009 contribution until 2012. The 2008 CBAs also provide for pension and other benefit enhancements for both current employees and retirees (see Notes 17 and 20 to the Financial Statements). A small number of workers at these facilities, as well as workers at our transportation operations are covered by agreements with the USW or other unions that have varying expiration dates. At USSC the collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Lake Erie Works has expired and a successor agreement has not been reached. The collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Hamilton Works expires in July 2010. All of the agreements in North America contain no strike clauses. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in March 2012. Represented employees at USSS are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in December 2012. Wage increases have been agreed to for all years for both USSE agreements. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. We post our annual report on Form 10 K, our quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, our proxy statement and our interactive data files to our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also post all press releases and earnings releases to our web site. 27 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles, our Code of Ethical Business Conduct and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation & Organization Committee and the Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 2998). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site or the documents referred to in the immediately preceeding paragraph into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income from operations by reportable segment and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 3 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary (Unaudited) on pages F 63 and F 64. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Current Global Recession All segments of our business have been impacted by the global recession and such impacts have created certain new risks and have also affected the other risks set forth below. U. S. Steel and its end product markets continue to be impacted by the global recession. For full year 2009, U. S. Steel reported a net loss of $1,401 million, or $10.42 per diluted share. Raw steel production in our North American Flat rolled segment averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 79 percent and 83 percent of cabability in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and our European USSE segment averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 86 percent and 92 percent of capability in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our Tubular segment shipped 657 thousand tons in 2009 as compared to 1.95 million tons in 2008. Despite some signs of economic recovery, we expect to report an overall operating loss for the first quarter of 2010. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which experienced substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels and this has led to a substantial decrease in oil and gas drilling activity, which has resulted in lower customer demand for the products of our Tubular segment. U. S. Steels operating levels will remain at depressed levels until our customers demand increases. In addition to reduced demand in our end product markets, we believe that some of our customers are experiencing difficulty in obtaining credit or maintaining their ability to qualify for trade credit insurance, resulting in a further reduction in purchases and an increase in our credit risk exposure. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. In addition, the expiration of governmental stimulus programs may have a negative impact on the levels of customer demand. In response to the global recession, we announced that we had substantially reduced our planned capital expenditures for 2009 to conserve liquidity. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long 28 Table of Contents term strategic importance, as we focused on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Unless the current economic situation continues to improve, we may have to delay investments of long term strategic importance. It could also become more expensive to complete these deferred investments at a later date. Moreover, delaying these long term strategic investments could have a negative impact on our cost structure and market position. U. S. Steel is incurring and will continue to incur facility carrying costs when production capacity is temporarily idled and increased costs as we resume production at idled facilities. During 2009, U. S. Steel temporarily idled significant production facilities in all three of our segments in response to economic conditions and customer demand. We continue to incur certain facility carrying costs which could not be eliminated even though the facilities were idled, resulting in higher unit production costs for all three segments. For example, during 2009 in our North American Flat rolled and Tubular segments, we incurred approximately $735 million and $80 million of idled facility costs, respectively. Furthermore, we transferred raw materials to operating locations, and delayed discretionary repair and maintenance and other expenditures while facilities were temporarily idled to minimize costs and preserve liquidity during the idling period. As we restart facilities, we are incurring increased costs to replenish raw material inventories, prepare the previously idled facilities for operation, perform the required repair and maintenance, complete capital projects and prepare employees to safely return to work and resume production responsibilities. U. S. Steel may need to substantially increase working capital when market conditions and order levels improve. As our business deteriorated, we reduced working capital by $1.3 billion in 2009. When market conditions and order levels improve we may have to increase our working capital substantially, as it will take several months for new orders to be translated into cash receipts. In general, availability under our 2007 five year $750 million revolving credit facility, which was amended and restated in 2009, (Amended Credit Agreement) is limited to a monthly borrowing base of certain eligible domestic inventory and availability under our Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) is limited to eligible receivables. We may not have sufficient eligible inventory and receivables to borrow the amounts we need. U. S. Steel may face increased risks of customer and supplier defaults. There is an increased risk of insolvency and other credit related issues of our customers and suppliers, including their need to increase working capital as their businesses improve. We believe some of our customers and suppliers may not have sufficient credit available to them, which could delay payments from customers, result in increased customer defaults and cause our suppliers to delay filling, or to be unable to fill, our needs. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity investees are also being affected by the current global recession. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity affiliates are also engaged in the production of steelmaking raw materials and finishing of flat rolled and tubular products. As such they face many of the same issues we do. Since these entities are smaller than U. S. Steel, they may have fewer resources available to them to respond to the current global recession. Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is highly cyclical, and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow, especially during periods of economic weakness. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in regional markets. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess global supply, which has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. 29 Table of Contents Rapidly growing supply in China and other developing economies may grow faster than real demand in those economies, which may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years, steel consumption in China and other developing economies has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by rapidly increasing steel production capability in those countries and published reports state that further capacity increases are likely. Steel production, especially in China, has expanded rapidly and appears to be well in excess of Chinas home market demand. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any excess Chinese supply could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if this excess and subsidized production is exported to other markets. Since the Chinese steel industry is largely government owned, it has not been as adversely impacted by the current global recession, and it can make production and sales decisions for non market reasons. Increased imports of steel products into North America and Europe could negatively affect steel prices and demand levels and reduce our profitability. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 22 percent of the domestic steel market in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 22 percent in 2007. Foreign competitors may have lower labor costs, and some are owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Imports of tubular products to the United States increased significantly beginning in 2008. Oil country tubular goods (OCTG) imports accounted for a large share of the growth, as they have more than doubled over 2007 levels. Imports of OCTG from China registered the most dramatic increase as they grew from 900 thousand tons in 2007 to nearly 2.3 million tons in 2008. The U.S. market experienced a surge in tubular imports in the second half of 2008 that resulted in record OCTG inventories by the end of the year, which affected demand in 2009 and is continuing to affect demand in 2010. Chinese imports of seamless standard line and pressure pipe increased by more than 290 percent in the three months after the filing of antidumping and counterveiling duty petitions in September 2009, as compared to the three months prior to the filing. Imports of flat rolled steel to Canada accounted for an estimated 35 percent of the Canadian market for flat rolled steel products in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 27 percent in 2007. Total imports of flat rolled carbon steel products to the EU27 (the 27 countries currently comprising the European Union (EU)) were 15 percent of the EU market in 2009, 19 percent in 2008 and 17 percent in 2007. Increases in future levels of imported steel to North America and Europe could reduce future market prices and demand levels for steel products produced in those markets. Imports into the United States, Canada and the EU have often violated the international trade laws of these jurisdictions. While in some cases U. S. Steel and others have been successful in obtaining relief under these laws, in other circumstances relief has not been received. When received, such relief is generally subject to automatic or discretionary recision or reduction. There can be no assurance that any such relief will be obtained or continued in the future or that such relief as obtained will be adequate. Limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in obtaining sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner due to delays or defaults by suppliers, shortages or transportation problems (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or disruption of rail lines, waterways or natural gas transmission lines), resulting in production curtailments. We do not produce enough coke to meet our global requirements and our coke production capability is likely to decline over the next several years given that some of our existing coke batteries in the United States are approaching the end of their useful lives. As a result, we may be further exposed to risks concerning pricing and availability of coke from third parties. USSE is dependent upon availability of natural gas produced in Russia and transported through Ukraine. USSE experienced natural gas supply curtailments during Russias suspension of natural gas shipments to Europe in January 2009. Resulting steel production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins, and any future curtailments and escalated costs may reduce profit margins. 30 Table of Contents Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Steel producers in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the EU, Canada and Japan are generally comparable to U.S. standards, other nations, particularly China, have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Greenhouse gas policies could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create carbon dioxide (CO2). This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States has passed a bill in the House of Representatives and a bill has been introduced in the Senate. For a discussion of these, see PART I Business Environmental Matters. We cannot predict the final requirements that may be adopted in the United States and Canada, or the form of future actions that may be taken by the EU; however, such limitations could entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources, which could have a negative effect on results of operations and cash flows. Since mini mill production does not involve the same chemical reactions as integrated production, mini mills may have a competitive advantage. Also, since China and many other developing nations have not instituted greenhouse gas regulations, and since past international agreements such as the Kyoto Protocol provided exemptions and lesser standards for developing nations, we may also be at a competitive disadvantage with certain foreign steel producers. Many of our customers in the United States, Canada and Europe may experience similar impacts, which could result in decreased demand for our products. Risk Factors Concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Our retiree health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, and our pension plan costs in North America are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans covering most of our North American employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 129,000 current employees, retirees and beneficiaries are participating in the plans to receive pension and or medical benefits. At December 31, 2009, on an accounting basis, U. S. Steels retiree medical and life insurance plans were underfunded $2.9 billion and our pension plans were underfunded by $1.7 billion. Most of our employee benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Minimum contributions to domestic qualified pension plans are controlled under ERISA and other government regulations. Minimum contributions to U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) pension plans are governed by an agreement entered into by Stelco Inc. (Stelco) and the Province of Ontario that U. S. Steel assumed in conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco. This agreement requires defined annual contributions until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. Substantial cash contributions may be required to fund these benefit plans. U. S. Steel contributes to a multiemployer plan in the United States covering pensions for USW represented workers formerly employed by National Steel and workers hired after May 2003. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of this plan, which may have a negative effect on our cash flows. The collective 31 Table of Contents bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) increased our required contributions to this plan from $1.80 to $2.65 per hour. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of this plan. Total costs for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $420 million in 2010, a decrease of $40 million from 2009, while cash contributions for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $570 million in 2010, exclusive of any voluntary contributions we might choose to make. The turmoil in financial markets during 2008 has led to significant declines in the value of equity investments that are held by the trusts under our pension plans and the trust to pay for retiree health care and life insurance benefits. While some of these losses were recovered in 2009, the 2008 losses have contributed to the underfunded position at December 31, 2009. We may be required or may choose to make substantial contributions to these plans. Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and pension plans, and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Benefit obligations under our plans are not tied to operating rates; therefore, our costs are not expected to decline as a result of the global recession or any other future economic downturns. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our results of operations and cash flows. U. S. Steel is involved in numerous remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to unrelated parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. For example, we recorded a charge of $49 million in 2009 in connection with the expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works bringing the total liability for this site to $66 million as of December 31, 2009. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Many U.S. competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Competitors that have obtained relief under bankruptcy laws may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors Applicable to U. S. Steel Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to equipment failures at our facilities or those of our key suppliers. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Production at USSE was curtailed in January 2009 due to the suspension of natural gas deliveries to Europe from Russia transported through Ukraine and we remain vulnerable to this risk. Availability of raw materials and delivery of products to customers could be affected by logistical disruptions (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or unavailability of rail lines or of locks on the Great Lakes or other bodies of water). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by volatility in prices for raw materials, energy, and steel. Approximately 60 percent of U. S. Steels Flat rolled segment sales in the United States are based on sales contracts with volume commitments and durations of at least one quarter, while lesser percentages of Tubular and USSE segment sales are made pursuant to such contacts. These contracts generally have a fixed price or a price 32 Table of Contents that will fluctuate with changes in a defined index and do not always have firm volume commitments. During periods of rapid escalation of raw materials, energy and other costs such as was experienced in 2008, U. S. Steel may not be able to recover these cost increases from customers with existing fixed price agreements. Conversely, some purchase contracts require annual commitments and in periods of rapid decline, such as 2009, U. S. Steel may be faced with having agreed to purchase raw materials and energy at prices that are above the then current market price or in greater volumes than required. If steel prices decline, our profit margins on market based indexed contracts and spot business will be reduced. Declines in the production levels of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which reported substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels, leading to a reduction in oil and gas exploration and development, which in turn has resulted in lower customer demand for our Tubular segment. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. The terms of our indebtedness contain provisions that may limit our flexibility. The Amended Credit Agreement is now secured by a lien on a majority of our domestic inventory and certain of our accounts receivable and includes a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant that applies when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than $112.5 million. Because the Amended Credit Agreement was undrawn throughout 2009, this covenant was not applicable, but based on the four quarters ended December 31, 2009, we would not have met this covenant. The value or levels of inventory may decrease or we may not be able to meet this covenant in the future, and either or both of these situations would limit our ability to borrow under the Amended Credit Agreement. We also amended our $500 million RPA, which among other things increased pricing, reserve factors and percentages; changed the definition of Eligible Receivables, which resulted in an increase in the amount of our receivables ineligible for purchase; and added a change of control provision. Reductions in accounts receivable would limit our ability to sell receivables. In general, availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is limited to a monthly borrowing base for certain eligible domestic inventory. Further inventory reductions could limit availability to less than the potential $750 million. If availability under the Amended Credit Agreement falls below the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million, we would also be subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. This may be a particular problem when market conditions and order levels improve and U. S. Steel needs the liquidity to rebuild working capital. We have granted the lenders under the Amended Credit Agreement a secured position in our most liquid assets, which may be a detriment to other creditors. The Amended Credit Agreement, our Senior Convertible Notes issued in 2009 and our $1.6 billion of Senior Notes issued in 2007 also contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks. Additionally, the repayment of amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and repurchase of the Senior Convertible Notes and Senior Notes is required upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. The Amended Credit Agreement, the Senior Convertible Notes and the RPA have provisions that certain defaults under a material debt obligation could cause a default under the Amended Credit Agreement or the Senior Convertible Notes or termination of the RPA. These terms may affect our liquidity, our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. All three major ratings agencies have downgraded the ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt in the last year. This has caused increases in borrowing costs under our credit facilities. We have been required to and may be forced to provide additional collateral or financial assurance for environmental closure and other presently unsecured obligations. These and any future downgrades in our credit ratings may make raising capital more difficult, may increase the cost and affect the terms of future borrowings, may affect the terms under which we purchase goods and services and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 33 Table of Contents Change in control clauses in our financial and labor agreements grant the other parties to those agreements rights to accelerate obligations and to terminate or extend our labor agreements. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, Amended Credit Agreement, Senior Convertible Notes and various other contracts and leases, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately repurchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. Additionally, the 2008 CBAs give the USW the right to either terminate or extend the collective bargaining agreements for an additional four years. A change of control is generally defined to include any of the following: (a) the acquisition by a person or group of at least 35 percent of our common stock, (b) a merger in which holders of our common stock own less than a majority of the equity in the resulting entity, or (c) replacement of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors by persons who were not nominated by our current directors. Our operations expose us to uncertainties and risks in the countries in which we operate, which could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our U.S. operations are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the United States, which if changed could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, increased regulation, limitations on exports of energy and raw materials, and trade remedies. Actions taken by the U.S. government could affect our results of operations and cash flow. For example, certain health care reform proposals could increase the cost of our health insurance plans for active employees and retirees and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. USSK, located in Slovakia, USSS, located in Serbia, and USSC, located in Canada, constitute 39 percent of our global raw steel production capability. All of them are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the countries in which they are located, and USSK is additionally subject to economic conditions and political factors associated with the EU and the euro currency. Changes in any of these economic conditions or political factors could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, government instability, civil unrest, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. Any future foreign acquisitions could expose us to similar risks. We are subject to significant foreign currency risks, which could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. Our foreign operations accounted for approximately 30 percent of our net sales in 2009. The financial condition and results of operations of USSK, USSS and USSC are reported in various foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. The appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. In addition, the acquisition of USSC was funded from the United States, as well as through the reinvestment of undistributed foreign earnings from USSE, creating intercompany monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities involved, which can have a non cash impact on income when they are remeasured at the end of each quarter. An $892 million U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary was the primary exposure at December 31, 2009. Any future foreign acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Our business requires substantial expenditures for debt service, obligations, capital investment, operating leases and maintenance that we may be unable to fund. With $3,364 million of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2009, we have significant debt service requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2009, total capital expenditures were $3.3 billion. At December 31, 2009, our contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $152 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $173 million under operating leases. 34 Table of Contents In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, steelmaking and steel finishing facilities. As of December 31, 2009, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $173 million, operating lease obligations of approximately $26 million that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, and unconditional purchase obligations, including take or pay arrangements, totalling approximately $11.5 billion. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient, to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. The limitations under our Amended Credit Agreement and RPA, described above, may limit our availability to draw upon these facilities. We intend indefinitely to reinvest undistributed foreign earnings outside the United States; however, if we need to repatriate funds in the future to satisfy our liquidity needs, the tax consequences would reduce income and cash flow. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. Our insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insured retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by the 2008 CBAs, which expire in September 2012. These agreements contain provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USW, grant the USW a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the 2008 CBAs, require us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities and require mandatory pre funding of a trust for retiree health care and life insurance. These agreements also restrict our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further require that the ratio of non USW employees to USW employees at our domestic facilities not exceed one to five. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USW, some foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. We are at risk of labor stoppages. The collective bargaining agreement covering the Lake Erie Works expired in July 2009 and there has been a work stoppage since that time. The collective bargaining agreement at the Hamilton Works expires in July 2010, and we may not enter into a successor agreement prior to that time. There are risks associated with past acquisitions, as well as any acquisitions we may make in the future. Our acquisitions of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) and Stelco created goodwill on our balance sheet which totaled $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, and which exposes us to the risk of future impairment charges. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007 and our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined based on consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or compound annual growth rate, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. The assumptions used will have a large impact on the conclusions reached in future tests. As of 35 Table of Contents December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively. The Lone Star acquisition increased our tubular production capacity by more than 50 percent and the Stelco acquisition increased our North American steelmaking capability by 25 percent, thereby increasing our exposure to cyclical downturns in historically cyclical industries such as oil and gas, service center, conversion, automotive, construction and appliance. The success of any future acquisitions will depend substantially on the accuracy of our analysis concerning such businesses and our ability to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, to finance such acquisitions and to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Our acquisitions in 2007 involved purchase prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our acquisitions in 2003. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations and countries. Antitrust and similar laws in foreign jurisdictions may prevent us from completing acquisitions. There are risks associated with existing and potential tax law and accounting requirements. In accordance with ASC Topic 740, we have not recognized a tax benefit for pre tax losses in jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance for accounting purposes. As a result, the pre tax losses associated with USSS and USSC do not provide any tax benefit for accounting purposes. Significant changes in the mix of pre tax results among the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material impact on our effective tax rate. President Obamas administration has proposed significant changes to U.S. tax law. Some of the proposed changes, such as the repeal of the last in first out (LIFO) inventory cost method, could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow if they are enacted. We may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow in a particular period. Our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. For information regarding our current significant legal proceedings, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. We may suffer employment losses, which could negatively affect our future performance. Approximately 570 of U. S. Steels North American based non represented employees retired in 2009 as part of a voluntary early retirement program and a significant number of those remaining are or will be eligible for retirement over the next several years. 36 Table of Contents Over the last few years we had intensified our recruitment, training and retention efforts so that we may continue to optimally staff our operations, but we instituted a freeze on hiring in early 2009 in response to the global economic recession. If we are unable to hire sufficient qualified replacements for those leaving, our future performance may be adversely impacted. With respect to our represented employees, we may be adversely impacted by the loss of employees who retired or obtained other employment during the time they were laid off or subject to a work stoppage such as currently exists at Lake Erie Works. The cost reduction actions taken in 2009 increased the number of personnel and organization changes and may increase the risk of internal control failures. We may experience difficulties implementing our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. We are currently implementing an ERP system to help us operate more efficiently. This is a complex project, which is expected to be implemented in several phases over the next several years. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP program without experiencing difficulties. In addition, the expected benefits of implementing the ERP system may not be realized or the costs of implementation may outweigh the realized benefits. We extended the implementation schedule in early 2009 to reduce near term costs. This action will delay the realization of benefits from this project and may add to final project costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following tables list U. S. Steels main properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Slabs; Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Plant Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Slabs; Sheets; Coke Lake Erie Works Nanticoke, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke Hamilton Works Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke; Bars Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Slabs; Rounds; Sheets; Seamless Tubular USS POSCO Industries(a) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin mill PRO TEC Coating Company(a) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(a) Dearborn, Michigan Galvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(a) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(a) Jackson, Canton and Taylor, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(a) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(a) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(a) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Baycoat Limited Partnership(a) Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Steel processing D.C. Chrome Limited(a) Stony Creek, Ontario, Canada Roll processing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Seamless Tubular Texas Operations Lone Star, Texas Welded Tubular Bellville Operations Bellville, Texas Welded Tubular Wheeling Machine Products Pine Bluff, Arkansas and Hughes Springs and Houston, Texas Tubular couplings Tubular Processing Services Houston, Texas Tubular processing Tubular Threading and Inspection Services Houston, Texas Tubular threading, inspection and storage services Fintube Technologies, Inc. Tulsa, Oklahoma and Monterrey, Mexico Specialty Welded Tubular United Spiral Pipe, LLC(a) Pittsburg, California Spiral Welded Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Hibbing Taconite Company(a) Hibbing, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Tilden Mining Company(a) Ishpeming, Michigan Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas Transportation services (railroad and barge operations) (a) Equity investee 38 Table of Contents Other Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Koice Koice, Slovakia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Tubular; Coke; Radiators;Refractories U. S. Steel Serbia Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Limestone Apolo Tubulars S.A.(a) Lorena, Sao Paulo, Brazil Welded Tubular (a) Equity investee U. S. Steel and its predecessors (including Lone Star) have owned their properties for many years with no material adverse claims asserted. In the case of Great Lakes Works, Granite City Works, the Midwest Plant and Keetac iron ore operations acquired from National Steel in 2003; the Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia operations acquired by U. S. Steel in 2003; and the Lake Erie Works and Hamilton Works of U. S. Steel Canada acquired in 2007; U. S. Steel or its subsidiaries are the beneficiaries of bankruptcy laws and orders providing that properties are held free and clear of past liabilities. In addition, U. S. Steel or its predecessors obtained title insurance, local counsel opinions or similar protections when the major properties were initially acquired. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease. The final lease payment is due in December 2012 and the lease term expires in June 2013, subject to additional extensions. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. At the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has a supply agreement for various utility services with a company which owns a cogeneration facility located on U. S. Steel property. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. General Litigation In March 2008, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed a previous decision of the Indiana Utilitites Regulatory Commission involving a rate escalation provision in U. S. Steels electric power supply contract with Northern Indiana Public Service Company and a reserve of $45 million related to prior year effects was established in the first quarter of 2008. In June 2009, the Indiana Supreme Court overruled the Court of Appeals, and we reversed the reserve related to this litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel is vigorously defending these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. 39 Table of Contents On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. Asbestos Litigation As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active cases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. At December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 450 active cases involving approximately 3,050 plaintiffs. During 2009, settlements and dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 200 claims and U. S. Steel paid approximately $7 million in settlements. New filings added approximately 190 claims. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. Most of the claims filed in 2009, 2008 and 2007 involve individual or small groups of claimants. Historically, these claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); (2) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel; and (3) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of former operations of U. S. Steel. In general, the only insurance available to U. S. Steel with respect to asbestos claims is excess casualty insurance, which has multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has received minimal payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 210 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or our products or premises; however, with the decline in mass plaintiff cases the incidence of claimants actually alleging a claim against U. S. Steel is increasing. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or our products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing our potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any 40 Table of Contents claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where we believe litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. The following table shows activity with respect to asbestos litigation: Year ended December 31, OpeningNumber ofClaims ClaimsDismissed,Settled andResolved New Claims Closing Numberof Claims Amounts Paid toResolve Claims(in millions) 2007 3,700 1,230 530 3,000 $ 9 2008 3,000 400 450 3,050 $ 13 2009 3,050 200 190 3,040 $ 7 The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. The vast majority of pending claims against us allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. In most cases, the claimant also was exposed to asbestos in non U. S. Steel settings; the relative periods of exposure between U. S. Steel and non U. S. Steel settings vary with each claimant; and the strength or weakness of the causal link between U. S. Steel exposure and any injury vary widely. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, although the resolution of such matters could significantly impact results of operations for a particular quarter. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has declined; (2) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (3) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2009, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the 41 Table of Contents ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of, environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 31 CERCLA sites where liability is not resolved. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs will be between $1 million and $5 million for 3 of these sites, will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site for 8 of these sites, and will be under $100,000 per site for 9 of these sites. At 2 other sites, management estimates U. S. Steels share in the future cleanup costs to be $32 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. One site is known as the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pennsylvania. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation, which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel has completed the remedial design for this site and it is being reviewed by PADEP. The other site is the former Duluth Works, which was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River Interlake Duluth Tar site on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel has prepared a conceptual habitat enhancement plan (HEP) that includes measures to address contaminated sediments in the St. Louis River Estuary. MPCA (on behalf of EPA) has completed its second five year review for the site. As a result, additional data collection will be required to address data gaps identified in the five year review and corrective measures will be required to address the recently discovered areas of contamination on the upland property. Study, investigation and oversight costs along with implementation of corrective measures on the upland property and implementation of the HEP are currently estimated at $26 million. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 45 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 12 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 18 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 8 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million per site. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $5 million per site at 4 sites and in excess of $10 million per site at 1 sites. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining three sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by the EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. As of December 31, 2009, project costs have amounted to $60 million. U. S. Steel completed additional dredging in 2007, and submitted a Dredge Completion Report to EPA in May 2008. Although further dredging is not expected, $1.0 million is accrued for possible additional work that 42 Table of Contents may be required to complete the project and obtain EPA approval. The Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) which received dredged materials from the Grand Calumet River could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to an Administrative Order on Consent (1998) for corrective action. CAMU maintenance and wastewater treatment costs are anticipated to be an additional $872,000 through December 2011. In 1998, U. S. Steel also entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel, following EPA approval of the Dredge Completion Report, will pay the public trustees $1.0 million for ecological monitoring costs. In addition, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $835,000. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects based on the estimated remaining costs was $3.7 million at December 31, 2009. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites: D5, along with an adjacent solid waste disposal unit, Terminal Treatment Plant (TTP) Area; T2; and D2 combined with a portion of the Refuse Area, where a solid waste disposal unit overlaps with the hazardous waste disposal unit. The sites are located on plant property. U. S. Steel has submitted a closure plan to the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) for D2 and the known tar areas of the Refuse Area. U. S. Steel has proposed that the remainder of the Refuse Area be addressed as a Solid Waste Management Unit (SWMU) under corrective action. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a revised closure plan for T2 and separate closure plans for D5 and the TTP Area. IDEM approved the closure plans for D5 and T2 on October 15, 2009 and December 1, 2009 respectively. Implementation of both plans is expected to begin in 2010. The related accrued liability for estimated costs to close each of the hazardous waste sites and perform groundwater monitoring prior to closure is $5.8 million for D5 and TTP, $3.1 million for T2 and $10.9 million for D2 including a portion of the Refuse Area, as of December 31, 2009. On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for SWMUs throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI), a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) and Corrective Measure Implementation at Gary Works. Reports of field investigation findings for Phase I work plans have been submitted to EPA. Four self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had spent approximately $31.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval for a perimeter groundwater monitoring plan and is developing a proposal for a corrective measure to address impacted sediments in the West Grand Calumet Lagoon. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a sampling and analysis plan for the Solid Waste Management Areas east of the Vessel Slip Turning Basin, and a portion of the sediments behind the East Breakwall. U. S. Steel has begun operation of a full scale groundwater treatment system approved by EPA as a Self Implementing Stabilization Measure to address benzene impacted groundwater east of the vessel slip, and continues to operate a seasonal groundwater treatment system near the coke plant. The costs for the above mentioned activities are estimated to be $15.1 million. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval to implement corrective measures necessary to address soil contamination at Gary Works. U. S. Steel estimates the minimum cost of the corrective measures for soil contamination to be approximately $3.5 million. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $6.1 million. Until the remaining Phase I work and Phase II field investigations are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary for Corrective Action projects at Gary Works. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects was $24.7 million as of December 31, 2009, based on the estimated remaining costs. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by IDEM, acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court and thereafter became effective April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel has paid our entire share of the assessment costs and the restoration costs to the public trustees. On November 26, 2007, IDEM issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) alleging three pushing violations and one door violation on the No. 2 Battery that were to have occurred on July 11, 2007. On December 20, 2007, IDEM made a verbal penalty demand of $123,000 to resolve these alleged violations. U. S. Steel provided written responses to the NOVs. Negotiations regarding these NOVs are ongoing. 43 Table of Contents On October 3, 2007, November 26, 2007, March 2, 2008 and March 18, 2008, IDEM issued NOVs alleging opacity limitation violations from the coke plant and Blast Furnaces Nos. 4 and 8. To date, no penalty demand has been made by IDEM regarding these NOVs. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating resolution of these NOVs with IDEM. On July 3, 2008, EPA Region V issued a Notice of Violation/Finding of Violation (NOV/FOV) alleging violations resulting from a multi media inspection conducted in May 2007 and subsequent information collection requests pursuant to Section 114 of the Clean Air Act. These alleged violations include those currently being prosecuted by IDEM that are identified above. Other alleged violations include the reline of No. 4 Blast Furnace in 1990 without a New Source Review/Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit, and opacity limit excursions from hot iron transfer cars, slag skimming, slag pits, and the blast furnace casting house. The NOV/FOV also alleges violations relating to hydrochloric acid pickling, blast furnace relief valves and blast furnace flares. While a penalty demand is expected, EPA Region V has not yet made such a demand. Since issuing the NOV/FOV, EPA Region V has issued additional Section 114 information requests to Gary Works. U. S. Steel has responded to the requests and is currently negotiating resolution of the NOV/FOV and other request issues with EPA Region V and IDEM. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice On February 18, 2009, U. S. Steel received a letter from IDEM alleging that Gary Works was culpable for an ambient air quality exceedance for PM10 at the IITRI Monitoring Site. U. S. Steel responded to the letter on March 13, 2009. U. S. Steel met with IDEM on April 28, 2009 to resolve the issue. If Gary Works is determined to be culpable, U. S. Steel may be required to install and maintain two additional on site PM10 monitoring stations per the December 2006 Air Agreed Order. U. S. Steel continues to discuss the matter with IDEM. On April 13, 2009, Gary Works received a Notice of Violation from EPA Region 5 for alleged violations for New Source Review for reline of No. 13/14 during 2004 2005. U. S. Steel continues to meet with IDEM and EPA to negotiate resolution of the NOV. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. On August 20, 2009. Gary Works received an NOV and proposed Order alleging that Gary Works violated its NOx Trading Budget Allocations in 2006 ozone season. IDEM orginally proposed a penalty of $87,500. Because Gary Works corrected the error from its own allocations and no excess emissions occurred as a result of the NOx accounting error, IDEM agreed to reduce the penalty to $35,000. U. S. Steel verbally agreed to the reduced penalty and is currently drafting an Agreed Order with IDEM. Mon Valley Works On March 17, 2008, U. S. Steel entered a Consent Order and Agreement (COA) with the Allegheny County Health Department (ACHD) to resolve alleged opacity limitation and pushing and traveling violations from older coke oven batteries at its Clairton Plant and to resolve alleged opacity violations from its Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA required U. S. Steel to pay a civil penalty of $301,800 to resolve past alleged violations addressed by the COA. U. S. Steel paid the civil penalty on March 25, 2008. The COA requires U. S. Steel to conduct interim repairs on existing batteries and make improvements at the Ladle Metallurgical Facility and Steelmaking Shop at the Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA also requires that Batteries 7, 8 and 9 be shutdown by January 24, 2013 and Batteries 1, 2 and 3 be shutdown by August 11, 2015. Batteries 7 through 9 were shutdown in April 2009. We are repairing existing Batteries 19 and 20 and we continue to evaluate plans to construct new coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. U. S. Steel is also making upgrades at its Edgar Thomson Plant that would reduce emissions. On September 3, 2009, U. S. Steel Mon Valley Clairton Works incurred a catastrophic failure of its Desulfurization Plant. Because of this event, the Clairton, Edgar Thomson, and Irvin plants have exceeded their sulfur limit for air emissions when burning coke oven gas. The Desulfurization Plant was inoperable from September 3, 2009 through the remainder of 2009. U. S. Steel has provided the regulatory agencies with reports and updates. While no NOV has been issued to date, the Allegheny County Health Department has verbally indicated that it intends to issue a violation notice regarding the inability to desulfuirze the coke oven gas to meet the sulfur loading limits. On October 8, 2009, Mon Valley Clairton Works received a NOV from ACHD alleging that Clairton Works was culpable for hydrogen sulfide (H2S) Pennsylvania ambient air quality standard exceedances. The NOV requires U. S. Steel to submit a plan with milestones to reduce and minimize fugitive emissions of coke oven gas from the coke producing operations at Clairton including identification of coke oven gas emission sources and method of improved emission prevention and control. While U. S. Steel appealed the NOV on October 16, 2009, U. S. Steel 44 Table of Contents submitted an Action Plan to ACHD that was required by the NOV. U. S. Steel and ACHD have performed H2S modeling and are in the process of evaluating all potential sources of H2S in the area. U. S. Steel and ACHD continue to meet and discuss resolution. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a SWMU (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After the acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel has submitted a Closure Plan to IDEM recommending consolidation and in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.0 million and was recorded as an accrued liability as of December 31, 2009. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform an RFI and a CMS at our Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $617,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997. In accordance with the consent decree, U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two supplemental environmental projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the Fairfield Works facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) with the approval of EPA assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works. ADEM is currently reviewing the Phase II RFI work plan. The remaining cost to develop and implement the Phase II RFI work plan is estimated to be $787,000. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc., whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $210,000. In 2006, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of Upper Opossum Creek at a cost of $2.95 million, with a remaining contingency of $18,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. In 2007, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of approximately two acres of land at the former Ensley coke plant. As of December 31, 2009, costs to complete the remediation of this area have amounted to $1.3 million. An additional $49,000 remains accrued for project contingencies at Ensley with an additional $65,000 accrued for the contiguous properties. In total, the accrued liability for the projects described above was $1.0 million as of December 31, 2009, based on estimated remaining costs. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Lorain Tubular Operations In September 2006, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) inviting U. S. Steel to enter into discussions about RCRA Corrective Action at Lorain Tubular Operations. Those discussions resulted in the identification of ten SWMUs and three Areas of Concern (AOC) requiring further investigation and evaluation. In addition, U. S. Steel notified Ohio EPA in August 2009 of an additional SWMU based upon its field observations and a preliminary assessment. Currently, U. S. Steel is implementing a Phase I RFI on the identified SWMUs and AOCs. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has spent $223,000 on studies at 45 Table of Contents this site. Costs to complete additional studies are estimated to be $547,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Great Lakes Works On January 6, 2006, U. S. Steel received a proposed administrative consent order from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the Great Lakes Works facility. On February 13, 2007, MDEQ and U. S. Steel agreed to a revised Administrative Consent Order that resolves this matter. As required by the Administrative Consent Order, U. S. Steel has paid a civil penalty of $300,000 and has reimbursed MDEQ $50,000 in costs. The Order identifies certain compliance actions that address the alleged violations. U. S. Steel has completed work on most of these compliance actions, and has initiated work on the others. One of the compliance actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has completed the corrective measure necessary to remove historical basin sediments from these areas. As of December 31, 2009, $1.8 million had been spent on the project. In addition, $161,000 remains accrued for possible additional requirements to obtain MDEQ approval. Another compliance action includes modifications to the Cold Mill Wastewater Treatment Plant where U. S. Steel has agreed to rehabilitate four clarifiers and two wastewater conveyance pipelines, upgrade the computer control system and evaluate other potential improvements of this system. The vast majority of the elements of this project have been completed at a cost of $8.8 million and U. S. Steel anticipates spending an additional $110,000 most of which will be capitalized. Costs to complete the few remaining compliance actions are presently not determinable. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Great Lakes Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Great Lakes Works violated casthouse roof monitor and baghouse opacity limits; slag pit opacity limits; Basic Oxygen Process roof monitor opacity limits; and certain permit recordkeeping and parametric monitoring requirements. Great Lakes Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the DOJ. Granite City Works U. S. Steel received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004, for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop at our Granite City Works facility. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occurs when coke is pushed out of the ovens, for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. In December 2006, IEPA added to its complaint by adding a release of coke oven gas in February 2006. In October 2007, the Court entered a Second Supplemental Complaint in which IEPA added alleged violations regarding excessive opacity emissions from the blast furnace, and incorrect sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission factors regarding blast furnace gas emissions. On December 18, 2007, U. S. Steel entered into a Consent Order with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA that resolved the Complaint, as supplemented. The Order required that U. S. Steel: (1) pay a penalty of $300,000, which U. S. Steel paid on January 10, 2008; (2) demonstrate compliance with Coke Oven Pushing Operations in accordance with the compliance schedule provided in the Order; (3) comply with the basic oxygen furnace (BOF) opacity emissions in accordance with the schedule provided in the Order; and (4) submit to IEPA a revised permit application with the correct SO2 emission factors, which U. S. Steel submitted in January 2008. On September 30, 2008, U. S. Steel submitted a revised BOF Compliance Schedule and requested to modify the Order consistent with the revised BOF Compliance Schedule. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating with IEPA and the Illinois Attorney General as to what upgrades at the BOF will precede the compliance demonstration. U. S. Steel met with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA on June 11, 2009 to discuss the BOF Compliance Plan and Schedule. While the meeting was productive, the compliance demonstration deadline for the BOF remains indefinitely postponed by agreement of the parties. At Granite City Works, U. S. Steel and Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway), a subsidiary of SunCoke Energy, Inc., have agreed with two environmental advocacy groups to establish an Environmental Trust 46 Table of Contents Fund (Trust), which requires the permittees (U. S. Steel and Gateway) to collectively deposit $1.0 million by September 30th of each year, beginning September 30, 2008 and ending September 30, 2012. U. S. Steel contributed $500,000 to the Trust on September 30, 2008, which amounted to its share of the required 2008 deposit. On September 30, 2009, U. S. Steel contributed an additional $500,000 to the Trust pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. As grantors, U. S. Steel and Gateway have established the Trust as a part of the cost to construct a heat recovery coke plant adjacent to Granite City Works. The capital contribution and all net income of the Trust are to be used for the purposes of promoting energy efficiency, greenhouse gas reductions and PM2.5 emission reduction, to be implemented in the local community where Granite City Works is located. The Trust can be used for projects at public buildings or property owned by the city, local schools, parks and library districts. On February 2, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging approximately 16 separate violations. Specifically, IEPA alleged that Granite City Works: inappropriately charged a battery while off the collecting mains because of (1) damaged coke guides on one occasion and (2) derailment of the pushing control system on two occasions; failed to perform some monthly and quarterly inspections required by Iron & Steel Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards or Coke MACT standards; failed to initiate repairs within 30 days after recording that the baffles on the quench tower were damaged on the monthly inspection report; failed to adequately wash the baffles on the quench tower per the MACT standard; inappropriately used the emergency pour station at the BOP during routine, non emergency maintenance; failed to sufficiently apply a wetting agent to the slag from BF A to minimize fugitive emissions while loading trucks and failed to update and properly implement its Fugitive Dust Program. U. S. Steel provided a written response to IEPA on March 18, 2009 and met with IEPA on April 8, 2009 to resolve the issues identified in the NOV. U. S. Steel supplemented its response on April 29, 2009. IEPA has not made any penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. On March 17, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging the following at Granite City Works: door leaks from B Battery; volatile organic compounds from pressure relief valves from gas blanketing tank; coke by products process unit and information (lacking); failure to report retagging project for benzene in service equipment; and failure to maintain records for benzene in service equipment repairs. U. S. Steel responded to the NOV on May 8, 2009, and met with IEPA regarding the issues identified in the NOV on June 9, 2009. IEPA has not made a penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. In late January 2009, Granite City Works exceeded its natural gas usage and corresponding emission limits for 2008 at designated combustion units, including boilers and ladle drying. A notification letter was submitted to IEPA by U. S. Steel on January 30, 2009. Per U. S. Steels January 30, 2009 correspondence, U. S. Steel provided a Compliance Plan regarding fuel use and fuel balance to IEPA on February 28, 2009. IEPA has not responded to the self reported violations or made any penalty demand. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Granite City Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Granite City Works: failed to apply for an obtain a Prevention of Signficant Deterioration/New Source Review permit for the 1994 B Blast Furnace reline (while the furnace was owned by National Steel Corporation); exceeded BOP roof monitor opacity limits, exceeded blast furnace casthouse roof monitor opacity limits; and failed to complete certain permit recordkeeping and parameteric monitoring requirements. Granite City Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and the current property owner pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality. U. S. Steel developed work plans and completed remediation on certain areas of the site. Having completed the invesigation on a majority of remaining areas identified in the permit, U. S. Steel has 47 Table of Contents determined that the most effective means to address the remaining impacted material is to manage those materials in a previously approved on site Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU). U. S. Steel has recorded a liability of $66 million as of December 2009, for our estimated share of the remaining costs of remediation, including the construction, waste management, closure and post closure of a CAMU. USS POSCO Industries (UPI) At UPI, a joint venture between subsidaries of U. S. Steel and POSCO Industries, corrective measures have been implemented for the majority of the former SWMUs. Seven SWMUs remain at the facility, five of which require further remediation. Prior to the formation of UPI, U. S. Steel owned and operated the Pittsburg, California facility and U. S. Steel retained responsibility for the existing environmental conditions. Two SWMUs may not require further action pending a No Further Action decision by the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC). Of the five SWMUs requiring remediation, U. S. Steel is nearing completion of investigatory work which will result in engineered remedies for two SWMUs. These SWMUs include the impacted ground water at the former wire mill, and the coal tar pitch impacted soils near the old foundry building. U. S. Steel is continuing discussions with the DTSC regarding additional corrective measures that may be required at the three remaining SWMUs within the facility. Arsenic impacted soils and groundwater have been delineated at these three SWMUs. While it is likely that corrective measures will be required at these SWMUs, it is not possible at this time to define a scope or estimate costs for what may be required by DTSC. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Other On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB) entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Implementation of the preferred remedy was essentially completed in late 2007. The respondents are finalizing the Removal Action Summary report by addressing some minor site maintenance issues, deed restrictions and operating and maintenance plans for approval by KDHE. U. S. Steel and SSB continue to work with KDHE to address site maintenance issues. At December 31, 2009, an accrual of $121,000 remains available for these project contingencies. On January 23, 2006, Kansas Department of Health and Environment KDHE sent a letter to U. S. Steel requesting that U. S. Steel address a former zinc smelter site in Girard, Kansas. U. S. Steel completed a site investigation, and submitted a Corrective Action Study (CAS) necessary to address the impacted soils at this site. KDHE approved the CAS on November 17, 2009. In addition, a Consent Agreement and Final Order, through which the remediation will be conducted, remains to be negotiated with KDHE. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has an accrued liability of $1 million to complete the investigation and conduct the remedial measure as proposed in the CAS. In January of 2004, U. S. Steel received notice of a claim from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and notice of claims from citizens of a cap failure at the Dayton Landfill. U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil are the largest PRPs at the site and have agreed to equally share costs for investigating the site, making U. S. Steels share 33 1/3 percent. The Remedial Action Plan for the site was approved by TCEQ in June 2009. On December 10, 2009, pursuant to the Texas Solid Waste Disposal Act, The Cox Road Group (comprised of U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil) filed a contribution/cost of recovery action against apporximately 50 parties in Liberty County, Texas. Implementation of remedial measures is expected to be initiated in 2010. The accrued liability to complete U. S. Steels one third portion of the site investigations and implement the remedial measure was $1.8 million as of December 31, 2009. 48 Table of Contents Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2010, are as follows: Name Age Title Executive OfficerSince George F. Babcoke 53 Senior Vice President European Operations & President U. S. Steel Koice March 1, 2008 James D. Garraux 57 General Counsel & Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs February 1, 2007 John H. Goodish 61 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer December 31, 2001 Gretchen R. Haggerty 54 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer December 31, 2001 David H. Lohr 56 Senior Vice President Strategic Planning, Business Services & Administration June 1, 2008 John P. Surma 55 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer December 31, 2001 Susan M. Suver 50 Vice President Human Resources November 1, 2007 Gregory A. Zovko 48 Vice President & Controller April 1, 2009 All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel or our subsidiaries for more than the past five years, with the exception of Ms. Suver. Prior to joining U. S. Steel, Ms. Suver served as corporate vice president, Global Human Resources for Arrow Electronics, Inc. (Arrow), a $12 billion global provider of industrial and commercial electronic components and computer products. She joined Arrow in 2001 as vice president, Global Organizational Development. Prior to that, she served as vice president, Organization Effectiveness and Communication for Phelps Dodge Corporation. Messrs. Garraux, Goodish and Surma and Ms. Haggerty will hold office until the annual election of executive officers by the Board of Directors following the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or until his or her earlier resignation, retirement or removal. Messrs. Babcoke, Lohr and Zovko and Ms. Suver will hold office until their resignation, retirement or removal. 49 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 61. As of January 31, 2010, there were 20,322 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. Dividends are declared by U. S. Steel on a quarterly basis. For the first quarter of 2009, the dividend declared per share of U. S. Steel common stock was $.30 and for the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, the dividend declared was $.05. For the first and second quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.25 and for the third and fourth quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.30. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds. Shareholder Return Performance The graph below compares the yearly change in cumulative total shareholder return of our common stock with the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poors (S&Ps) 500 Stock Index and the S&P Steel Index. The S&P Steel Index is comprised of U. S. Steel, Nucor Corporation, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated and Worthington Industries, Inc. 50 Table of Contents Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities U. S. Steel had no sales of unregistered securities during the period covered by this report and we have suspended purchases under our Common Stock Repurchase Program. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2009 2008 2007(a) 2006 2005 Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(b) $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 $ 15,715 $ 14,039 (Loss) income from operations(c) (1,684 ) 3,069 1,213 1,785 1,439 Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(c) (1,401 ) 2,112 879 1,374 910 Per Common Share Data: Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(d) basic (10.42 ) 18.04 7.44 11.88 7.87 diluted (10.42 ) 17.96 7.40 11.18 7.00 Dividends per share declared and paid 0.45 1.10 0.80 0.60 0.38 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 15,422 $ 16,087 $ 15,632 $ 10,586 $ 9,822 Capitalization: Debt(e) $ 3,364 $ 3,145 $ 3,257 $ 1,025 $ 1,612 United States Steel Corporation stockholders equity 4,676 4,895 5,531 4,365 3,324 Total capitalization $ 8,040 $ 8,040 $ 8,788 $ 5,390 $ 4,936 (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. (b) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from higher average realized prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe (including favorable foreign currency effects) and higher shipments of flat rolled and tubular products in the U.S. The increase in net sales from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from higher shipments and increased average realized prices prices in all three reportable segments. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2006 to 2007 mainly resulted from higher raw materials and outage related costs in the U.S. and Europe, increased maintenance costs in the U.S., lower average realized prices for tubular products in the U.S. and unfavorable inventory transition effects related to inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco. These were partially offset by higher prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe. The increase from 2005 to 2006 was mainly due to higher average realized prices in the U.S., higher shipments of flat rolled products in the U.S. and in Europe and lower raw materials costs in Europe. These were partially offset by higher raw materials costs in the U.S. (d) See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2009 and 2008 see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from new debt issued to fund the acquisitions of USSC and Lone Star. The decrease from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from the repurchase of most of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due August 1, 2008, and from the repayment and termination of a 195 million credit facility at USSK. 51 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the tenth largest steel producer in the world and the largest integrated steel producer headquartered in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions to produce a wide range of flat rolled and tubular steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil, gas and petrochemical industries. In addition to our facilities in the United States, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Canada through U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) and in Europe through U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), located in Serbia. U. S. Steels financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. While the operating results of our various businesses are affected by a number of business specific factors (see Item 1. Business Steel Industry Background and Competition), the primary drivers for U. S. Steel are general economic conditions in North America, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other benefits costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. Following several years of strong performance, the steel industry and U. S. Steel were quickly and severely impacted by the global recession starting in late 2008. In response to these economic conditions, our strategy has been to enhance our liquidity, maintain a solid balance sheet and position ourselves for success in the longer term. In late 2008 and early 2009, we idled all or portions of numerous steel making, finishing, raw materials and tubular operations in the U.S., Canada and Europe and operated our remaining facilities at reduced levels to match our customers lower demand requirements. We continue to monitor the impact of the economic situation on our customers and to adjust our operations to efficiently meet their requirements. Our raw steel capability utilization rate in 2009 was 48% for Flat rolled operations and 69% for USSE operations. With respect to financial matters, we reduced our quarterly dividend, completed successful offerings of senior convertible notes and common stock and renegotiated the provisions of existing financial covenants with lenders. We initiated substantial cost reduction activities at all locations, including reducing our non represented workforce through restructuring, attrition and early retirement programs. We agreed with the United Steel Workers (USW) to defer certain mandatory trust contributions, implemented a hiring freeze, eliminated merit pay salary increases, suspended the Company match on our 401(k) program, and reduced fees for Board of Directors and base salaries for all general managers and executives. We significantly reduced our capital expenditures for 2009 from the original plan of $740 million to $472 million by focusing largely on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. We voluntarily contributed $140 million to the main defined benefit plan as we still believe that this is appropriate to mitigate larger potential funding requirements in the future. We refinanced $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds extending their maturity dates from 2011 to maturity dates ranging from 2017 to 2030. We finished the year with total liquidity of $2.5 billion, an improvement of nearly $300 million from the average of the previous five year ends. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to earn a competitive return on capital employed by implementing our strategy to be a world leader in safety and environmental performance; to continue to increase our value added product mix; to further expand our global business platform; to maintain a strong capital structure, balance sheet and liquidity position; to continue to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to attract and retain a diverse and talented workforce. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which are impacting the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the level of unfunded pension and other benefits obligations; the degree of industry consolidation; the impact of production and consumption of steel in China and other developing countries; and the levels of steel imports into the markets we serve. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to employee benefits liabilities and assets held in trust relating to such liabilities; the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; goodwill and intangible assets; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations and potential litigation claims and settlements. Managements estimates are based on historical experience, current business and market conditions, and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. LIFO (last in, first out) is the predominant method of inventory costing for inventories in the United States and FIFO (first in, first out) is the predominant method used in Canada and Europe. The LIFO method of inventory costing was used for 49 percent and 39 percent of consolidated inventories at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Equity Method Investments Investments in entities over which U. S. Steel has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are carried at U. S. Steels share of net assets plus loans, advances and our share of earnings less distributions. Differences in the basis of the investment and the underlying net asset value of the investee, if any, are amortized into earnings over the remaining useful life of the associated assets. Income from investees includes U. S. Steels share of income from equity method investments, which is generally recorded a month in arrears, except for significant and unusual items which are recorded in the period of occurrence. Gains or losses from changes in ownership of unconsolidated investees are recognized in the period of change. Intercompany profits and losses on transactions with equity investees have been eliminated in consolidation subject to lower of cost or market inventory adjustments. U. S. Steel evaluates impairment of its equity method investments whenever circumstances indicate that a decline in value below carrying value is other than temporary. Under these circumstances, we would adjust the investment down to its estimated fair value, which then becomes its new carrying value. Pensions and Other Benefits The recording of net periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pensions and other benefits is based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the 53 Table of Contents assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steels investment strategy for its U.S. pension and other benefits plan assets provides for a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality bonds and selected smaller investments in private equities, investment trusts, timber and mineral interests. For its U.S. pension plans, U. S. Steel has a target allocation for plan assets of 60 percent equities with the balance primarily invested in corporate bonds and government backed bonds and Treasury bills. For the Other Benefit plans, the target allocation for plan assets is 65 percent equities. U. S. Steel also believes that returns on equities over the long term will be higher than returns from fixed income securities as actual historical returns from U. S. Steels trusts have shown. Returns on bonds tend to offset some of the shorter term volatility of stocks. Both equity and fixed income investments are made across a broad range of industries and companies to provide protection against the impact of volatility in any single industry as well as company specific developments. U. S. Steel is currently using an 8.00 percent assumed rate of return for purposes of the expected return on assets for the development of net periodic cost for the main defined benefit pension plan and Other Benefits. This rate was chosen by taking into account the intended asset mix and the historical premiums that fixed income and equity investments have yielded above government bonds. Actual returns since the inception of the plans have exceeded this 8.00 percent rate and while some recent annual returns have not, it is U. S. Steels expectation that future periods will return to this level. For USSC defined benefit pension plans, U. S. Steels investment strategy is similar to its strategy for U.S. plans, whereby the Company seeks a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality corporate and government bonds and selected smaller investments with a target allocation for plan assets of 65 percent equities. A 7.50 percent rate of return is being used for the development of net periodic costs in 2010 which is lower than the U.S. pension plan assumption as subcategories within the asset mix are from a more limited investment universe and, as a result, have a lower expected return. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate used to measure both domestic pension and other benefits obligations to 5.5 percent from 6.0 percent. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which we estimate the pension and other benefits liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting the domestic rates, we utilize several AAA and AA corporate bond indices as an indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. For USSC benefit plans, a discount rate was selected through a similar review process using Canadian bond rates and indices and at December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate to 6.0 percent from 6.5 percent for its Canadian based pension and other benefits. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Much of our costs for the domestic USW participants retiree health benefits (other than for most surviving spouses) in the Companys main domestic insurance plan are subject to a cost cap that was negotiated in 2003. As a result of the collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) (see Note 17 to the Financial Statements), our costs are subject to the full impact of escalation for the surviving spouse beneficiaries since their retiree premium contributions are now a flat fixed amount. Escalation applies to most other groups within the Companys insurance plans, but does not apply to most domestic non union retirees since their benefits are limited to flat dollar amounts. For measurement of its domestic retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 8.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2015 and remain at that level thereafter. For measurement of its Canadian retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 7.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2014 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, including multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $270 million in 2010 compared to $271 million in 2009. Pension cost for 2009 included $80 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Total other benefits costs in 2010 are expected to be approximately $150 million, compared to $191 million in 2009. Other benefit costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Excluding the 2009 settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the expected increase in total pension cost is primarily due to a lower market related value of plan assets primarily due to further recognition of the asset losses that were incurred in 2008. 54 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical  1/2 percentage point change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and other benefits calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) 1/2% (1/2%) Expected return on plan assets Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension cost for 2010 $ (52 ) $ 52 Discount rate Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension & other benefits costs for 2010 $ (22 ) $ 32 Pension & other benefits liabilities at December 31, 2009 $ (613 ) $ 658 Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental increase (decrease) in: Service and interest cost components for 2010 $ 8 $ (7 ) Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost over the fair value of acquired identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities assumed from businesses acquired. We have two reporting units that have a significant amount of goodwill. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007. These amounts reflect the benefits we expect the Flat rolled reporting unit to realize from expanding our flexibility in meeting our customers needs and running our Flat rolled facilities at higher operating rates to source our semi finished product needs. Our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition, reflecting the benefits we expect the reporting unit to realize from the expansion of our tubular operations. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. U. S. Steel completed its annual goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of 2009 and determined that there was no goodwill impairment for either reporting unit. Fair value was determined in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820 on fair value, which requires consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable. For the 2009 annual goodwill impairment test, U. S. Steel used fair values estimated under the income approach and the market approach. Although considered, U. S. Steel did not utilize the cost approach as relevant data was not available. The income approach is based upon projected future cash flows discounted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk associated with the future cash flows. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using probability weighted scenarios of future cash flow projections based on managements long range estimates of market conditions over a multiple year horizon. A three percent perpetual growth rate was used to arrive at an estimated future terminal value. A discount rate of 11 percent was used for both reporting units which was based upon the cost of capital of other comparable steel companies, which we view as the most likely market participants. The market approach is based upon an analysis of valuation metrics for companies comparable to our reporting units. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using an appropriate valuation multiple based on this analysis, estimated normalized earnings and an estimated control premium. 55 Table of Contents In order to validate the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units, a reconciliation of the aggregate fair values of all reporting units to market capitalization, using a reasonable control premium, was performed as of the valuation date. We further validated the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units using other valuation metrics that included data from historical U. S. Steel transactions as well as published analyst reports. As of December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively, but would still result in no goodwill impairment charge. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit under the income approach are determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions, including assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or assumed growth rates, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. U. S. Steel has determined that certain acquired intangible assets have indefinite useful lives. These assets are reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long lived assets U. S. Steel evaluates long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of those productive assets exceed their projected undiscounted cash flows. We evaluate the impairment of long lived assets at the asset group level. Our asset groupings are the same as our reporting units. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel determines that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of our deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of our net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. income taxes on undistributed foreign earnings because as of December 31, 2009, it remained managements intention to continue indefinitely to reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2009 amounted to approximately $2,901 million. If such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $870 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss for items that have been or may be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, court case, tax ruling or other authoritative tax position), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2009, the total accrual for environmental remediation was $203 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations. Due to uncertainties inherent in remediation projects, it is possible that total remediation costs for active matters may exceed the accrued liability by as much as 15 to 30 percent. Segments U. S. Steel has three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2008, the operating results of our iron ore operations, which were previously included in Other Businesses, are included in the Flat rolled segment. The iron ore operations are managed as part of our Flat rolled segment, which consumes almost all of our iron ore production. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this change. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels North American integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of slabs, rounds, strip mill plates, sheets and tin mill products , as well as all iron ore and coke production facilities in the United States and Canada. The steel rounds and a portion of the hot rolled sheets produced by Flat rolled are supplied to the Tubular segment. These operations primarily serve North American customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), construction, container, and appliance and electrical markets. Flat rolled has annual raw steel production capability of 24.3 million tons. Flat rolled had annual raw steel production capability of 20.2 million tons for the year ended December 31, 2007 as annual raw steel production capability includes U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Raw steel production was 11.7 million tons in 2009, 19.2 million tons in 2008 and 16.8 million tons in 2007. Raw steel production averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009, 79 percent of capability in 2008 and 83 percent of capability in 2007. The USSE segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and coke production facilities in Slovakia; U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and other facilities in Serbia; and equity investees located in Europe. USSE primarily serves customers in the European construction, service center, conversion, container, transportation (including automotive), appliance and electrical, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. USSE produces and sells slabs, sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill products and spiral welded pipe, as well as heating radiators and refractory ceramic materials. USSE has annual raw steel production capability of 7.4 million tons. USSEs raw steel production was 5.1 million tons in 2009, 6.4 million tons in 2008 and 6.8 million tons in 2007. USSEs raw steel production averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009, 86 percent of capability in 2008 and 92 percent of capability in 2007. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels tubular production facilities, primarily in the United States, and equity investees in the United States and Brazil. These operations produce and sell seamless and electric resistance welded (ERW) steel casing and tubing (commonly known as oil country tubular goods or OCTG), standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. Tubulars annual production capability is 2.8 million tons. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses include transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations and engineering consulting services. For further information, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents Net Sales (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Net Sales by Segment (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2009 2008 2007(b) Flat rolled(a) $ 6,814 $ 13,789 $ 9,986 USSE 2,944 5,487 4,667 Tubular 1,216 4,251 1,985 Total sales from reportable segments 10,974 23,527 16,638 Other Businesses(a) 74 227 235 Net sales $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 (a) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements. (b) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2009 versus Year Ended December 31, 2008 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 40 % 8 % 0 % 1 % 2 % 51 % USSE 20 % 20 % 1 % 3 % 2 % 46 % Tubular 63 % 5 % 1 % 0 % 4 % 71 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The decrease in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected decreased shipments (down 7.0 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $129 per net ton). The decrease in sales for USSE was primarily due to decreased shipments (down 1.2 million net tons) and lower average realized euro based transaction prices (down $295 per net ton including foreign currency translation effects). The decrease in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from decreased shipments (down 1.3 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $286 per net ton). 58 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 versus Year Ended December 31, 2007 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 19 % 19 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 38 % USSE 7 % 18 % 1 % 7 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 40 % 64 % 4 % 0 % 6 % 114 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The increase in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected higher average realized prices (up $138 per ton) and increased shipments, primarily due to the inclusion of USSC for all of 2008. The increase in sales for USSE was primarily due to higher average realized euro based transaction prices and currency translation effects, partially offset by reduced shipments. Including the currency translation effects, reported average realized prices increased $212 per ton from 2007. The increase in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from higher average realized prices (up $706 per ton) and increased shipments, partially due to the inclusion of the former Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) facilities for the entire year in 2008. Operating Expenses Profit based union payments Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Allocated to segment results $ $ 237 $ 119 Retiree benefit expenses 99 Total $ $ 237 $ 218 Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 did not include any costs for profit based payments to employees represented by the USW because the base threshold of operating income agreed to in the 2008 CBAs was not met. Results for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 include costs related to profit based payments. These costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Profit based payment amounts per the agreements with the USW are calculated as a percentage of consolidated income from operations (as defined in the agreements) and are paid as profit sharing to active USW represented employees (excluding employees of USSC) based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. Amounts in 2007 also include costs related to a trust that was to be used to assist retirees from National Steel with health care costs. Pension and other benefits costs Defined benefit and multiemployer pension plan costs totaled $271 million during 2009, $78 million during 2008 and $129 million in 2007. Pension costs during 2009 included $80 million for several voluntary early retirement programs (VERPs) and losses in connection with the sale of a majority of the operating assets of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E). Excluding these losses, the increase in expense from 2008 to 2009 mainly reflected the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Pension costs during 2007 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $20 million. Excluding these losses, the decrease in expense from 2007 to 2008 mainly reflected the improved funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $25 million during 2009, $35 million during 2008 and $26 million during 2007. Costs in 2009 included $13 million for VERP related benefits under these plans. Other benefits costs, which are included in income from operations, totaled $191 million in 2009, $149 million in 2008 and $136 million in 2007. Other benefits costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and 59 Table of Contents curtailment losses. Excluding these losses, the increase in 2009 was primarily due to impacts of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs partially offset by lower costs at USSC as a result of favorable claims experience. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of expenses related to USSC employees for the full year. For additional information on pensions and other benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Nonretirement postemployment benefits U. S. Steel incurred costs of and paid approximately $85 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 related to employee costs for supplemental unemployment benefits, salary continuance and continuation of health care benefits and life insurance coverage for employees associated with the temporary idling of certain facilities and reduced production at others. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $618 million in 2009, $625 million in 2008 and $589 million in 2007. Pension and other benefits costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $164 million in 2009, $47 million in 2008 and $86 million in 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses remained consistent from 2008 to 2009 but were impacted by an increase in pension and OPEB costs offset by a decrease in compensation expense. The increase in 2008 mainly resulted from increased expenses related to our 2007 acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and higher compensation expense, partially offset by lower pension expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization Depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses were $661 million in 2009, $605 million in 2008 and $506 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily related to the fact that effective January 1, 2009 we eliminated the use of the modified straight line method, which was previously used for certain steel producing assets in the United States. The increase in 2008 was primarily related to the full year impact of assets acquired in the business acquisitions during 2007. The modification factors previously applied to straight line calculations ranged from a minimum of 85 percent at a production level below 81 percent of capability, to a maximum of 105 percent for a 100 percent production level. No modification was made at the 95 percent production level. Applying modification factors decreased depreciation expense, when compared to a straight line calculation, by $58 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 60 Table of Contents (Loss) Income from Operations(a) Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 2007 Flat rolled(b) $ (1,438 ) $ 1,390 $ 382 USSE (208 ) 491 687 Tubular 57 1,207 356 Total (loss) income from reportable segments (1,589 ) 3,088 1,425 Other Businesses(b) (2 ) 77 84 Segment (loss) income from operations (1,591 ) 3,165 1,509 Retiree benefit expenses (134 ) (22 ) (143 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Federal excise tax refund 34 Litigation reserve 45 (45 ) Net (loss) gain on the sale of assets 97 Environmental remediation charge (49 ) (23 ) Workforce reduction charges (86 ) (57 ) Deferred gain recognition 150 Labor agreement signing payments (105 ) Asset impairment charge (28 ) Flat rolled inventory transition effects (23 ) (58 ) Tubular inventory transition effects (38 ) Total (loss) income from operations $ (1,684 ) $ 3,069 $ 1,213 (a) See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280. (b) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. 61 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled (Includes USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007) The Flat rolled segment generated a loss of $1,438 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $1,390 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted mainly from unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $2,450 million), lower income from reduced steel substrate sales to our Tubular segment (approximately $400 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities (approximately $360 million), facility restart costs (approximately $70 million) and lower income from equity investments (approximately $190 million). These were partially offset by lower raw material and natural gas costs (approximately $370 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $300 million). The increase in Flat rolleds segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 resulted mainly from higher commercial effects (approximately $2,780 million) and increased income from semi finished steel sales to Tubular (approximately $470 million). These were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials (approximately $1,560 million) and energy (approximately $280 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $170 million) and higher accruals for profit based payments (approximately $150 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. 62 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE The USSE segment generated a loss of $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $491 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $1,300 million) and reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $135 million) partially offset by lower raw material costs (approximately $620 million), reduced facility repair and maintenance costs (approximately $60 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $50 million). The decrease in USSEs segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to higher raw materials and energy costs (approximately $780 million), net unfavorable currency effects (approximately $50 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $40 million) and outage related costs (approximately $30 million), partially offset by higher commercial effects (approximately $740 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. Capability utilization in 2008 was adversely affected by the reline of the No. 1 blast furnace in Slovakia and by reduced operations late in the year to match declining customer demand. 63 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular (Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007) The decrease in Tubulars segment income in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to unfavorable commercial effects (approximately $1,080 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities and facilities operating at reduced production levels (approximately $35 million and $60 million, respectively) and write downs of inventory (approximately $35 million). These were partially offset by lower costs of substrate steel purchases from the Flat rolled segment (approximately $40 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $55 million). The increase in Tubulars segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 mainly resulted from higher commercial effects (approximately $1,580), due in part to the inclusion of results for facilities acquired from Lone Star for the entire year. This was partially offset by increased costs for semi finished steel (approximately $610 million) from Flat rolled and outside sources. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses generated a loss of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $77 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted from the impacts of the global recession and the sale of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E) in the first quarter of 2009. Results for Other Businesses decreased by $7 million from 2007 to 2008. Items not allocated to segments: Retiree benefit expenses increased significantly from 2008 to 2009 mainly due to the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Retiree benefit expenses decreased significantly from 2007 to 2008 mainly due to lower retiree pension expense (See Operating Expenses Pension and other benefits costs) and lower profit based expense related to certain former National Steel employees (See Operating Expenses Profit based union payments). 64 Table of Contents During 2009, U. S. Steel received a federal excise tax refund of $34 million associated with the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales from 1990 to 1992. A litigation reserve of $45 million involving a rate escalation provision in a U. S. Steel power supply contract was established in 2008 as a result of a court ruling and was subsequently reversed in 2009 as that decision was overturned. See Part II. Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings. We recorded a $97 million pre tax net gain on sale of assets in 2009 as a result of the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. The net gain included a pension curtailment loss of approximately $10 million. We recorded a $49 million environmental remediation charge in 2009 in connection with the definition of an expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works. We recorded a $23 million environmental remediation charge in 2008 as the scope of work became defined for an environmental project at a former operating location. Workforce reduction charges of $86 million in 2009 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a VERP offered in the first quarter of 2009 to certain non represented employees in the United States. Workforce reduction charges of $57 million in 2007 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a voluntary early retirement plan offered to certain employees at USSK. We recognized a noncash deferred gain of $150 million in 2008 in connection with the termination of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements. The 2008 CBAs provided for labor agreement signing payments of up to $6,000 per employee which resulted in a charge of $105 million in 2008. An asset impairment charge of $28 million in 2008 resulted from our decision to exit the drawn over mandrel (DOM) tubular products business. The charge was taken principally to write down to fair value equipment associated with the DOM business. Inventory transition effects of $23 million in 2008 and $96 million in 2007 reflected the charges for conforming certain inventories acquired from Lone Star to our unified business model, and the impact of selling inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco, which had been recorded at fair value. Net Interest and Other Financial Costs Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Interest and other financial costs $ 179 $ 179 $ 162 (a) Interest income (10 ) (14 ) (79 )(a) Foreign currency gains (8 ) (103 ) (4 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 26 Net interest and other financial costs $ 161 $ 62 $ 105 (a) The year ended December 31, 2007 includes $27 million of interest expense and offsetting interest income related to the obligation to provide benefits for National Steel retirees that was settled in the fourth quarter of 2007. While the obligation was outstanding, U. S. Steel invested the amount due in short term investments and interest earned on those investments was also payable. The increase in net interest and other financial costs from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to lower foreign currency gains. The decrease in net interest and other financial costs from 2007 to 2008 was mainly due to higher foreign currency gains and the nonrecurrence of the $26 million charge in 2007 related to the early redemption of certain debt, partially offset by increased interest expense resulting from debt incurred to fund the acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and lower interest income. 65 Table of Contents The foreign currency gains include remeasurement effects on a U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan (the Intercompany Loan) from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary related to the 2007 acquisition of USSC that had an outstanding balance of $892 million at December 31, 2009, partially offset by losses on euro U.S. dollar derivatives activity, which we use to mitigate our foreign currency exposure. Volatility in the foreign currency markets could have significant implications for U. S. Steel going forward as a result of the foreign currency accounting remeasurement effects resulting from the Intercompany Loan and foreign currency gains and losses on derivatives activity. For additional information on U. S. Steels foreign currency exchange activity see Note 15 to the Financial Statements and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. Income Taxes The income tax benefit in 2009 was $439 million, compared to provisions of $853 million in 2008 and $218 million in 2007. The tax benefit in 2009 is primarily related to the net loss for the period. The effective tax benefit rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 is lower than the statutory rate because losses in Canada and Serbia, which are jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, do not generate a tax benefit for accounting purposes. The increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily reflected higher income and a higher effective tax rate as a result of a lower percentage of pre tax earnings generated by our European operations. The net domestic deferred tax asset was $731 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $802 million at December 31, 2008. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset from 2009 to 2008 was primarily a result of the remeasurement of the pension and other benefits plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements). At December 31, 2009, the foreign deferred tax assets recorded were $103 million, net of established valuation allowances of $575 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the euro, the Canadian dollar and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian deferred tax assets due to the absence of positive evidence at USSC to support the realizability of the assets. A full valuation allowance is provided for Serbian deferred tax assets because current projected investment tax credits, which must be used before net operating losses and credit carryforwards, are more than sufficient to offset future tax liabilities. As USSC and USSS generate sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $514 million for Canadian deferred tax assets and $46 million for Serbian deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009, would be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. For further information on income taxes see Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Net income Net loss in 2009 was $1,401 million compared to income of $2,112 million in 2008 and $879 million in 2007. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2009 decreased by $717 million from year end 2008 primarily due to lower inventories and lower receivables partially offset by higher cash balances (see Cash Flows). The decrease in inventories primarily resulted from lower quantities of higher cost raw materials. Raw material inventory quantities decreased as U. S. Steel maintained lower operating rates throughout 2009 and reduced raw material purchases as a cash conservation measure. Receivables decreased mainly due to lower sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, due primarily to lower average realized prices. These decreases were partially offset by the recognition of an income tax receivable representing a portion of the federal income tax refund that we expect to receive in 2010 as a result of carrying back our expected 2009 losses to prior years. Goodwill of $1,725 million increased by $116 million from year end 2008 mainly as goodwill attributable to the acqusition of Stelco were reported at higher amounts due to foreign currency translation effects. 66 Table of Contents Assets held for sale at December 31, 2009 consist of certain assets at Hamilton Works, primarily property, plant and equipment, and decreased from December 31, 2008 as a result of the sale of the majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. Total deferred income tax benefits at year end 2009 remained consistent with the balance at year end 2008. Deferred income tax benefits were primarily impacted by an increase in foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards offset by an increase in the valuation allowance, since a full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian and Serbian deferred tax assets, and a decrease in the deferred income tax benefit related to employee benefits. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Current liabilities at year end 2009 decreased by $304 million from year end 2009 due mainly to lower payroll and benefits payable resulting from the absence of accruals for profit based payments and lower accrued taxes resulting from reduced net income in 2009 compared to 2008. Several balance sheet accounts changed as a result of an improvement in the net funded status of our pension and other employee benefits plans. Employee benefits decreased by $624 million and the accumulated other comprehensive loss decreased by $541 billion. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The decrease in the accumulated other comprehensive loss was also due to foreign currency translation effects as a result of the weakening U.S. dollar versus the Euro and the Canadian dollar. The increase in long term debt from December 31, 2008 was mainly due to our public offering in May 2009 of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014, partially offset by the repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. See Liquidity. Common stock and Additional paid in capital increased by $27 million and $666 million, respectively, compared to year end 2008 primarily as a result of our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May 2009. See Liquidity. Cash Flows Net cash used in operating activities was $61 million in 2009 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1,658 million in 2008 and $1,732 million in 2007. This change was primarily related to a net loss of approximately $696 million after adjustments for noncash items in 2009 compared to income of approximately $2.6 billion after adjustments for noncash items in 2008. The favorable working capital change in 2009 of approximately $1.3 billion mainly reflected lower inventory and receivables levels, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items in 2008 compared to 2007 was more than offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency translation effects due mainly to the strengthening of the U. S. dollar and unfavorable working capital effects (excluding the 2007 acquisitions). The unfavorable working capital change in 2008 mainly reflected higher inventory levels and the repurchase of receivables, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities for 2009 was increased and net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 and 2007 was reduced by employee benefits payments as shown in the following table. 67 Table of Contents Employee Benefits Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ 140 $ 140 $ 140 Required contributions to other defined benefit pension plans 79 73 23 Other employee benefits payments not funded by trusts 285 236 213 Contributions to trusts for retiree health care and life insurance(a) 12 228 498 Payments to a multiemployer pension plan 58 33 30 Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts 84 29 17 Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ 658 $ 739 $ 921 (a) Includes $143 million in 2008 and $468 million in 2007 for a company contribution to U. S. Steels trust for retiree health care and life insurance fulfilling the Companys obligation under an agreement with the USW regarding benefits for certain former National Steel employees. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and healthcare by the end of 2011. Capital expenditures variable interest entities was $147 million in 2009 and $161 million in 2008. This primarily reflects spending by Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) for a non recovery coke plant to supply Granite City Works. This spending is consolidated in our financial results but is funded by Gateway and, therefore, is completely offset by amounts included in distributions from noncontrolling interests, which is included in cash flow from financing activities. 68 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2009 of $472 million consisted largely of non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long term strategic importance, as we substantially reduced our capital spending from the original plan of $740 million to conserve liquidity. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $338 million in 2009included spending development of an enterprise resourceplanning (ERP) system, non discretionary environmentalprojects, maintenance on the No. 14 blast furnace at GaryWorks and cokemaking projects at Granite City Works andthe Clairton Plant, including the construction of acogeneration facility at Granite City Works. USSEexpenditures of $113 million included spending at USSK forthe maintenance of the No.3 blast furnace, a coke oven gasdesulphurization project and spending for development of theERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $465 million in 2008 included spending for modernization of our cokemaking facilities, including expenditures for construction of a cogeneration facility at Granite City Works, development of an ERP system and replacement of open pit mining equipment at our iron ore operations USSE expenditures of $210 million included spending at USSK for the reline of the No.1 blast furnace, for replacement of electrical power transformers and to upgrade a continuous caster, and spending for development of the ERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $418 million in 2007 included spending for development of an ERP system, blast furnace stove replacements at Granite City Works and Great Lakes Works, coke oven thru wall repairs primarily at our Clairton Plant and open pit mining equipment and an environmental project at our iron ore operations. USSE expenditures of $215 million included spending at USSK for an air emission reduction project and a new automotive quality galvanizing line, spending at USSS for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace, and spending for development of an ERP system. Construction of the new galvanizing line was completed in February 2007. 69 Table of Contents U. S. Steels contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2009, totaled $152 million. Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to total approximately $530 million and remain focused largely on environmental and other infrastructure projects. We continue to evaluate investments of long term strategic importance, including projects to invest in production of coke and coke substitutes, given that some of our existing coke batteries are approaching the end of their useful lives, to reduce coke requirements in Serbia through blast furnace coal injection, to enhance our Tubular operations in order to more efficiently serve customers increased focus on shale natural gas resources and to allow us to increase our participation in the automotive market as vehicle emission and safety requirements become more stringent. In light of the significant capital commitment that such projects would entail over the next several years, we may seek to secure some long term funding for such projects and general corporate purposes prior to committing to such projects. The preceding statement concerning expected 2010 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, ability to secure long term funding, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, receipt of necessary permits and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Z Line Company reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of pickle lines reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. reflected $2,050 million paid at closing, net of cash acquired of $71 million; plus $14 million of transaction costs to acquire all of the outstanding shares. Acquisition of Stelco Inc. reflected $1,237 million paid to acquire all of the outstanding stock and stock equivalents, $785 million paid to retire substantially all of the outstanding debt and $34 million paid to Stelcos main pension plans, net of cash acquired of $32 million; plus $13 million of transaction costs. Disposal of assets in 2009 reflected pre tax cash proceeds of approximately $300 million from the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E and $36 million from the sale of emissions allowances at U. S. Steel Koice (USSK). Restricted cash in 2009 primarily reflected collateral required on previously unsecured obligations. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2008 primarily reflected amounts drawn against a USSK 200 million three year revolving credit facility, the proceeds of which were used to reduce the Intercompany Loan (see Liquidity), as well as borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Repayments of revolving credit facilities in 2008 reflected repayment of borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Common stock issued in 2009 resulted from our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2009 resulted primarily from our public offering in May of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014. Also in 2009, we issued $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds (ERBs), maturing from 2017 to 2030. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the issuance of $300 million principal amount of 5.65% Senior Notes due 2013, $450 million principal amount of 70 Table of Contents 6.05% Senior Notes due 2017, $350 million principal amount of 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 and $500 million principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018; and our entrance into two $500 million term loans and a $400 million term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2009 primarily reflected repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. Also in 2009, we completed the refunding of $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds. See Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2008 primarily reflected payments on our term loans, including the early retirement of $300 million of our three year term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the early redemption of $378 million of 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010, the early redemption of $49 million of 10% Senior Quarterly Income Debt Securities due 2031 and the repayment of a $400 million term loan. Common stock repurchased in 2008 and 2007 totaled 2.0 million shares and 1.2 million shares, respectively. Our share repurchase program was originally authorized in July 2005. In 2006, our Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2009, 4.4 million shares remained authorized for repurchase. In late 2008, we suspended repurchases under this program as part of our reaction to the difficult global economic environment. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock 4th Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 1st Qtr. 2009 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.30 2008 $ 0.30 $ 0.30 $ 0.25 $ 0.25 2007 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 Liquidity The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2009: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,218 Amount available under $750 Million Credit Facility(b) 638 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 93 Amounts available under USSS credit facilities 55 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,504 (b) As of December 31, 2009, there were no amounts drawn on the Amended Credit Agreement and inventory levels supported the full $750 million of the facility. Since availability was greater than $112.5 million, compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio was not applicable. However, based on the most recent four quarters, as of December 31, 2009, we would not meet the fixed charge coverage ratio if we were to borrow more than $637.5 million. Therefore, we reduced the availability reflected by $112.5 million. 71 Table of Contents (a) Excludes $20 million, $20 million and $27 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, of cash primarily related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership (Partnership) because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. On October 31, 2008, we acquired the equity interests in the Partnership that we did not wholly own. Excludes $1 million of cash at December 31, 2008 related to our variable interest entities. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment and restatement of its $750 million Credit Agreement dated May 11, 2007 (Amended Credit Agreement) with a group of lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (Agent). U. S. Steel simultaneously entered into a security agreement with the Agent (Security Agreement) providing for a security interest in the majority of its domestic inventory. The Amended Credit Agreement established a borrowing base formula, which limits the amounts U. S. Steel can borrow to a certain percent of the value of certain domestic inventory less specified reserves, and eliminates the previous financial covenants that consisted of interest and leverage coverage ratios. The Amended Credit Agreement contains a new financial covenant requiring U. S. Steel to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (defined as consolidated EBITDA less certain capital expenditures and cash income tax expense to certain fixed charges) of at least 1.10 to 1.00 for the most recent four consecutive quarters when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million. The Amended Credit Agreement includes revised pricing and other customary terms and conditions, and will expire on May 11, 2012. For further information regarding the Amended Credit Agreement and Security Agreement, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) that provides up to $500 million of liquidity and letters of credit depending upon the number of eligible domestic receivables generated by U. S. Steel. The commitments under the RPA expire in September 2010. Domestic trade accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. If U. S. Steel decides to access this facility, USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables and if any of them are unable to fund such purchases, two banks are committed to do so. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into agreements which amended the RPA. These agreements increase certain reserve factors and percentages, provide for a termination event if there is a change of control of U. S. Steel, amend the definition of Eligible Receivables, change certain performance triggers and make conforming and clarifying changes. 72 Table of Contents The RPA may be terminated on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, failure by U. S. Steel to make payments under our material debt obligations and any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. For further information regarding the agreements, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. On May 4, 2009, U. S. Steel completed a public offering of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014 and 27,140,000 shares of its Common Stock. U. S. Steel received net proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion and used $655 million to repay all amounts outstanding under its three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Convertible Notes was $863 million. On December 11, 2009, USSK entered into a 10 million (approximately $14 million at December 31, 2009) unsecured revolving credit facility as the sole obligor. The facility expires January 2011. The facility bears interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contains other customary terms and conditions. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the facility. At December 31, 2009, USSK had no borrowings against its 40 million, 20 million and 10 million unsecured credit facilities (which approximated $101 million) but had $8 million of customs and other guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $93 million. At December 31, 2009, USSK had 200 million (approximately $288 million) fully drawn against a 200 million unsecured credit facility. USSK is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The 10 million facility expires January 2011, the 200 million facility expires July 2011, the 40 million facility expires October 2012 and the 20 million facility expires December 2012. During 2009, USSS amended its secured credit facility agreements to limit availability to the value of USSS inventory of finished and semi finished goods. These facilities include an 800 million Serbian dinar overdraft facility and a 40 million revolving credit facility (together approximately $69 million). USSS is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The facilities expire August 2010. At December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings against these facilities and availability was 39 million (approximately $55 million). On May 21, 2007, U. S. Steel issued a total of $1.1 billion of senior notes consisting of $350 million at 6.65 percent due 2037, $450 million at 6.05 percent due 2017, and $300 million at 5.65 percent due 2013, (collectively, the Senior Notes). The Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Notes was $1.1 billion. On December 10, 2007, U. S. Steel issued $500 million of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018 (the 2018 Senior Notes). The 2018 Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the 2018 Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. As of December 31, 2009, the principal amount outstanding under the 2018 Senior Notes was $500 million. We use surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. The use of some forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $150 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2009. Increases in these commitments which use collateral are reflected in restricted cash on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 73 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, in the event of a change in control of U. S. Steel, debt obligations totaling $2,462 million, which includes the Senior Notes and the Senior Convertible Notes, may be declared immediately due and payable. In such event, U. S. Steel may also be required to either repurchase the leased Fairfield slab caster for $45 million or provide a letter of credit to secure the remaining obligation. In the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, obligations of $354 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases, as well as $26 million relating to an operating lease, may be declared immediately due and payable. The guarantees of the indebtedness of unconsolidated entities of U. S. Steel totaled $11 million at December 31, 2009. In the event that any default related to the guaranteed indebtedness occurs, U. S. Steel has access to its interest in the assets of the investee to reduce its potential losses under the guarantee. U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $140 million to the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in both 2009 and 2008. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions of similar amounts in 2010 or later periods in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory contributions in later years. The contributions actually required will be greatly influenced by the level of voluntary contributions, the performance of pension fund assets in the financial markets, the elective use or disavowal of existing credit balances in future periods and various other economic factors and actuarial assumptions that may come to influence the level of the funded position in future years. The 2008 Collective Bargaining Agreements (see Note 17) require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions during the contract period to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance. This contribution is in addition to an annual $10 million required contribution to the same trust that continues from an earlier agreement. Under this earlier agreement, a $20 million contribution is required if the Company does not contribute at least $75 million to its main pension plan in the prior year. During 2008, the Company made $85 million in contributions to the trust under these agreements, as well as a $143 million contribution to cover some of the health and life benefits for certain retirees of National Steel Corporation. During the first quarter of 2009, the Company made a $10 million contribution to this trust. In April 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the annual $75 million mandatory contributions due in 2009 and the $10 million contribution due in January 2010. Further, the USW has agreed to permit us to use all or part of the $75 million contribution made in 2008 to pay current retiree health care and life insurance claims, subject to a make up contribution in 2013. Through December 31, 2009, none of the 2008 contribution funds have been used by the Company. In conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco, now USSC (see Note 4), U. S. Steel assumed the pension plan funding agreement (the Pension Agreement) that Stelco had entered into with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Province) on March 31, 2006 that covers USSCs four main pension plans. The Pension Agreement requires minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and additional annual contributions for benefit improvements, which currently are limited to the union retiree indexing provisions. The defined annual contributions will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. In its acquisition of Stelco on October 31, 2007, U. S. Steel assumed liability for a note issued to the Province of Ontario (Province Note) (see Note 4 to the Financial Statements). The face amount of the Province Note is C$150 million (approximately $142 million at December 31, 2009) and is payable on December 31, 2015. The Province Note is unsecured and is subject to a 75 percent discount if the solvency deficiencies in the four main USSC pension plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements) are eliminated on or before the maturity date. 74 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2009, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Long term debt (including interest) and capital leases(a) $ 4,954 $ 202 $ 943 $ 1,414 $ 2,395 Operating leases(b) $ 173 40 59 34 40 Unconditional purchase obligations(c) $ 11,540 4,442 2,627 1,305 3,166 Capital commitments(d) $ 152 114 38 Environmental commitments(d) $ 203 17 186 (e) Steelworkers Pension Trust $ 286 (f) 54 113 119 (f) (f) Pensions(g) $ 451 83 153 145 70 Other benefits(h) $ 1,940 (i) 415 880 645 (i) Unrecognized tax positions $ 106 106 (e) Total contractual obligations $ 19,805 $ 5,367 $ 4,813 $ 3,662 $ 5,963 (a) See Note 16 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Amounts exclude subleases. (c) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. Additionally, includes coke and steam purchase commitments related to a coke supply agreement with Gateway Energy & Coke Company LLC (See Note 18). (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Timing of potential cash flows is not reasonably determinable. (f) While It is difficult to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, which expire in 2012, projected amounts shown through 2014 assume that the current $2.65 contribution rate per hour will apply. (g) Amounts shown represent projected cash requirements for USSC pension plans, most of which relates to a funding scheme for USSCs four main plans, whereby under an agreement with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Pension Agreement), USSC is responsible for minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and smaller annual contributions for benefit improvements related to prior cost of living adjustments. The Pension Agreement will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015 when minimum funding requirements under the Pension Benefits Act will resume. U.S. dollar equivalents of contributions are based on foreign exchange rates as of December 31, 2009 and shown projected through 2015. (h) Excludes profit based payments that may be required through September 1, 2012, pursuant to the provisions of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments that may be required. (i) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for retiree medical and retiree life benefit obligations which require the use of corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2010 through 2014 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and include mandatory contributions to the USW VEBA trust of $75 million in 2010 and $85 million in both 2011 and 2012. Projected amounts do not reflect optional drawdowns from the USW VEBA trust if U. S. Steel decides to utilize certain options available under its agreements with the USW. Amounts to be used from the VEBA trust will be determined in 2010 and later years. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the asset trust mix, medical escalation rates and company decisions or restrictions related to our trusts for retiree healthcare and life insurance that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Due to these factors, amounts shown above could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. 75 Table of Contents Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table except for the contributions required for USSCs defined benefit pension plans. (See footnote (g) of the above table). U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and other benefits during 2010 and 2011. U. S. Steel may make voluntary contributions in 2010 or later periods to the main defined benefit pension plan in the United States in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory required contributions in later years. In addition to the USSC amounts included in the above table, U. S. Steel expects to make cash payments of $15 million to other pension plans not funded by trusts. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2009, and the effect such commitments could have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 122 $ 109 $ $ $ 13 (c) Surety bonds(a) 18 18 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 33 33 (c) Marathon Oil Corporation(a)(b) 26 26 Total commercial commitments $ 199 $ 109 $ 26 $ $ 64 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) Reflects the amount of U. S. Steels operating lease obligations that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. Our major cash requirements in 2010 are expected to be for capital expenditures, employee benefits and working capital requirements. We finished 2009 with $1.2 billion of available cash. As business conditions recover, our working capital requirements will likely increase and we may need to draw upon our credit facilities for necessary cash. Funding under the RPA and the Amended Credit Agreement is based on a pool of eligible domestic receivables and domestic inventory, respectively, both of which have declined as a result of lower orders and our efforts to reduce working capital. A sudden increase in orders could require a significant amount of investment in working capital. Should we experience a significant increase in orders or an unexpected need for funds that cannot be met with available cash and our liquidity facilities, we may need to access the capital markets. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy our obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Our opinion regarding liquidity is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than recent levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Debt and Senior Convertible Notes Ratings The ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt by Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) are BB and Ba3, respectively. On January 27, 2010, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) lowered its ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt from BBB to BB+ and revised its outlook to stable. Any further downgrades could reduce our access to the capital markets and increase our financing costs. 76 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, a portion of the labor force used by the investees is provided by U. S. Steel, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. In September 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utilities at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a cogeneration facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. U. S. Steel is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay annual capacity and operating and maintenance fees. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, which was effective January 1, 2004. During the initial 5 year period, U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that were annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Other guarantees, indemnifications and take or pay arrangements are discussed in Notes 18 and 28 to the Financial Statements. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations and similar obligations in Europe and Canada, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent that these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that our major North American, and many European, integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that our relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills, some foreign steel producers (particularly in developing economies such as China) and producers of materials which compete with steel, all of which may not be required to incur equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to our prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Many of our competitors do not have similar historical liabilities. Our U. S. facilities are subject to the U.S. environmental standards, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. 77 Table of Contents USSC is subject to the environmental laws of Canada, which are comparable to environmental standards in the United States. Environmental regulation in Canada is an area of shared responsibility between the federal government and the provincial governments, which in turn delegate certain matters to municipal governments. Federal environmental statutes include the federal Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 and the Fisheries Act. Various provincial statutes regulate environmental matters such as the release and remediation of hazardous substances; waste storage, treatment and disposal; and air emissions. As in the United States, Canadian environmental laws (federal, provincial and local) are undergoing revision and becoming more stringent. The Canadian and Ontario governments have identified a sediment deposit in Hamilton Harbor near USSCs Hamilton Works for remediation, which the regulatory agencies estimated several years ago will require expenditures of approximately C$90 million (approximately $85 million). The national and provincial governments have each allocated C$30 million (approximately $28 million) for this project and they have stated that they will be looking for local sources, including industry, to fund the remaining one third. USSC has committed C$7 million (approximately $7 million) as its contribution. Additional contributions may be sought. USSK is subject to the environmental laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). A related law of the EU commonly known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, Regulation 1907/2006) requires the registration of certain substances that are produced in the EU or imported into the EU. USSK pre registered various substances during the six month pre registration period that ended November 30, 2008, both on its own behalf and on behalf of U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries that may be shipping products into the EU. USSK is compliant with REACH and intends to register its substances by the applicable deadlines to remain in compliance and be able to continue its businesses without material change. USSS is subject to the environmental laws of Serbia. Under the terms of the acquisition in 2003, USSS is responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study in June 2004, which was submitted to the Government of Serbia. During 2008 and 2009, USSS spent approximately $50 million to reduce air particulate emissions and undertake other environmental projects pursuant to an agreement with the Serbian government. Many nations, including all where we operate, have or are considering the regulation of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Regulation of CO2 emissions is relevant to the steel industry and U. S. Steel. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States House of Representatives has passed a bill, a bill has been introduced to the Senate and the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified CO2 as a harmful gas. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 North America: Capital $ 28 $ 44 $ 21 Compliance Operating & maintenance 294 409 278 Remediation(a) 19 27 28 Total North America $ 341 $ 480 $ 327 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 55 $ 51 Compliance Operating & maintenance 16 17 18 Remediation(a) 7 18 7 Total USSE $ 90 $ 90 $ 76 Total U. S. Steel $ 431 $ 570 $ 403 (a) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. 78 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 20 percent of total capital expenditures in 2009, 11 percent in 2008 and 10 percent in 2007. Environmental compliance expenditures represented three percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2009 and two percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2008 and 2007. Remediation spending during 2007 through 2009 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at our Fairless Plant and Lorain Tubular Operations. RCRA corrective action programs have been initiated at Gary Works, Fairfield Works and USS POSCO Industries. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. The following table shows activity with respect to environmental remediation liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 410. Environmental Remediation Liabilities (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Beginning Balance $ 162 $ 142 Plus: Additions 57 37 Less: Payments (16 ) (17 ) Ending Balance $ 203 $ 162 New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2010. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $168 million in 2010, $89 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2010 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2011, including $26 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at USSC assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic 79 Table of Contents downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active asbestoscases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional details concerning asbestos litigation see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel will vigorously defend these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Outlook for First Quarter 2010 We expect to report an overall operating loss in first quarter 2010 as gradually improving business conditions begin to be reflected in our operating results. We continue to experience improved order rates from several of our end markets. Automotive, service center, converter and appliance customer order rates in North America and Europe are at or near their highest levels in the last twelve months, while in other markets, such as construction, demand remains soft, but due to the low levels of inventory and the anticipated seasonal increases in activity at the end of the first quarter, our construction order book remains stable for both North America and Europe. A gradually strengthening economy should result in improvements in real demand, while apparent demand will likely be positively influenced by the restocking of the manufacturing supply chain, which we believe is under way. Relatively low levels of flat rolled product imports, if continued, are also expected to support improved order rates. Our Tubular operations are also continuing to experience favorable demand trends, most notably in alloy product at our welded operations in East Texas. At the same time, spot market prices are increasing across all of our segments in response to increased order rates and global raw material cost pressures. We continue to believe that the U.S. and global economies are in the early stages of a gradual recovery. While we are becoming more optimistic, primarily due to improvements we are starting to see in the manufacturing sector, we remain cautious in our outlook for end user demand. 80 Table of Contents Flat rolled results for first quarter 2010 are expected to improve from fourth quarter 2009. The benefits of increases in average realized prices and shipments, efficiencies from increased operating rates and reduced facility repair and maintenance costs are expected to be partially offset by the absence of approximately $55 million of favorable effects from LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Average realized prices are expected to increase from fourth quarter 2009 as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. Increases in our index based contract prices would be realized later as higher published market price assessments enter the index calculations for future periods. We are currently making steel at six of our seven North American steelmaking locations, with the exception being our Lake Erie Works, which represents approximately ten percent of our annual Flat rolled raw steel capability. We expect to complete maintenance work on our largest blast furnace, the #14 Blast Furnace at Gary Works, late in the first quarter and have all available capacity in operation at these six locations before the end of the quarter. Overall, raw steel capability utilization rates are expected to increase from the fourth quarter of 2009. First quarter 2010 results for USSE are expected to be comparable to fourth quarter 2009 as the benefits of increased shipments and operating efficiencies are expected to be offset by higher raw material costs. Euro based transaction prices are expected to be slightly higher than the fourth quarter as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to be lower due to foreign currency translation effects. We completed maintenance work on the #3 Blast Furnace at USSK in early February and we are currently operating all five of USSEs blast furnaces. We expect our Tubular operations to remain profitable in the first quarter. However, results are expected to decrease from the fourth quarter as the benefits of increased shipments are expected to be offset by increased costs as we continue to increase production to meet increased order rates, as well as the absence of $10 million of favorable fourth quarter items related to favorable effects of LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Seamless and welded tubular product prices are expected to improve throughout the quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to decrease as compared to the fourth quarter due to a higher proportion of welded tubular product shipments. We expect increased operating rates at all of our pipe facilities in the first quarter, most notably our welded pipe facility in East Texas. These expected increases should also benefit our Flat rolled operations that supply substrate requirements to our welded pipe facilities. Accounting Standards In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (FAS 167). FAS 167 is a revision to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, and amends the consolidation guidance for variable interest entities. Additionally, FAS 167 will require additional disclosures about involvement with variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure due to that involvement. FAS 167 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 167 will result in the deconsolidation of certain of our current variable interest entities, including, Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC due to the addition of the power criteria in paragraph 14 of FAS 167. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 810, Consolidations Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities, to incorporate FAS 167. In June 2009, the FASB issued FAS No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets (FAS 166). FAS 166 is a revision to FAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, and will require more information about transfer of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and enhanced disclosures when companies have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. Additionally, FAS 166 eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity. FAS 166 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 166 will result in any Receivables Purchase Agreement transactions being accounted for as secured borrowing transactions as of January 1, 2010. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, to incorporate FAS 166. See note 19 for further details of our accounts receivable facility. 81 Table of Contents Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage our market and exchange rate risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain commodity or currency transactions. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the transaction is settled. Once the transaction is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. For further information regarding derivative instruments see Notes 1 and 15 to the Financial Statements. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, through USSE and USSC, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the euro, the Serbian dinar and the Canadian dollar. U. S. Steel historically has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. U. S. Steel has not elected to use hedge accounting for these contracts. Foreign currency derivative instruments have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in net interest and other financial costs. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sales contracts for U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $185 million and $363 million, respectively). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2009 euro forward rates would result in a $19 million charge to income. The fair value of our derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs, which are defined as significant other observable inputs. The inputs used include quotes from counterparties that are corroborated with market sources. Future foreign currency impacts will depend upon changes in currencies, the extent to which we engage in derivatives transactions and the balance of the Intercompany Loan. The amount and timing of such borrowings or repayments on the Intercompany Loan will depend upon profits and cash flows of our international operations, future international investments and financing activities, all of which will be impacted by market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices and foreign exchange rates. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of our business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and zinc, tin and other nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for our products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel has made forward physical purchases to manage exposure to price risk related to the purchases of natural gas and certain non ferrous metals used in the production process. Historically, the forward physical purchase contracts for natural gas and nonferrous metals have qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 815. However, 82 Table of Contents due to reduced natural gas consumption in 2009, we net settled some of our excess natural gas purchase contracts for certain facilities. Therefore, the remaining contracts for natural gas at those facilities no longer met the exemption criteria and were therefore subject to mark to market accounting. As of December 31, 2009, there are no longer natural gas purchase contracts subject to mark to market accounting. Fixed price forward physical purchase contracts entered into for 2010 to partially manage our exposure to natural gas price risk qualify for the normal purchases normal sales exemption. The fair value of our natural gas derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs. The inputs used include forward prices derived from the New York Mercantile Exchange. A 10 percent decrease in natural gas prices for open derivative instruments as of December 31, 2009, would not result in a material charge to income. U. S. Steel held commodity contracts for natural gas that qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption with a total notional value of approximately $44 million at December 31, 2009. Total commodity contracts for natural gas represent approximately 12 percent of our expected North American natural gas requirements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of our non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent increase/decrease in year end 2009 and 2008 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase inFair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 26 $ 0 $ 23 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 4,004 $ 172 $ 2,650 $ 106 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008. (d) For additional information see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on the yield on our public debt where available or current borrowing rates available for financings with similar terms and maturities. For additional information see Note 16 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of our debt portfolio would unfavorably affect our results and cash flows only to the extent that we elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt included 200 million ($288 million) of borrowing under a floating rate revolving credit facility, the fair value of which is not affected by interest rate declines. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 83 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Air The CAA imposes stringent limits on air emissions with a federally mandated operating permit program and civil and criminal enforcement sanctions. The CAA requires, among other things, the regulation of hazardous air pollutants through the development and promulgation of Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) Standards. The EPA has developed various industry specific MACT standards pursuant to this requirement. The CAA requires EPA to promulgate regulations establishing emission standards for each category of Hazardous Air Pollutants. EPA must also conduct risk assessments on each source category that is already subject to MACT standards and determine if additional standards are needed to reduce residual risks. The principal impact of the MACT standards on U. S. Steel operations includes those that are specific to cokemaking, ironmaking, steelmaking and iron ore processing. The emission limitations for ironmaking and steelmaking sources could become more stringent if EPAs residual risk analysis indicates that additional controls are necessary. EPA is required to complete this residual risk analysis by 2011. The impact of this risk analysis and any subsequent changes cannot be estimated at this time. U. S. Steels cokemaking facilities are subject to two categories of MACT standards. The first category applies to pushing and quenching. EPA is required to make a risk based determination for pushing and quenching emissions and determine whether additional emissions reductions are necessary from this process by 2011. EPA has yet to publish or propose any residual risk standards from these operations; therefore, the impact cannot be estimated at this time. The second category of MACT standards applying to coke facilities applies to emissions from charging, coke oven battery tops and coke oven doors. With regard to these standards, U. S. Steel chose to install more stringent controls than MACT on some of its batteries, called Lowest Achievable Emissions Reductions (LAER). Such LAER batteries are not required to comply with certain residual risk standards until 2020. Because the scope of these anticipated changes are distant and relatively uncertain, the magnitude of the impact of these anticipated changes cannot be estimated at this time. U. S. Steels iron ore processing operations are subject to the Taconite Iron Ore Processing MACT standards. These standards may change if EPA revises the MACT standards in response to a petition filed by an environmental advocacy group. In addition, EPA will make a risk based determination for taconite iron ore processing and determine whether additional emissions reductions are necessary from this process by 2011. EPA has yet to publish or propose any residual risk standards from these operations; therefore, the impact of any changes cannot be estimated at this time. 25 Table of Contents The CAA also requires the EPA to develop and implement National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for criteria pollutants, which include, among others, particulate matter and ozone. In 1997, EPA established 24 hour and annual standards for fine particles that are less than 2.5 micrometers in size and in 2006, EPA tightened the 24 hour standard but retained the annual standard. These standards were challenged and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, in American Farm Bureau Federation and National Pork Producers Council et al. v. EPA, 559 F. 3rd 512 (D.C. Cir. 2009), remanded the annual standards to the EPA for further consideration but allowed the 2006 24 hour standard to remain in effect. States are still required to demonstrate compliance with the 1997 fine particle standard by April 2010, with a possible extension to April 2015, but the annual standard could change based upon the remand noted above. If the standard is changed, states will be required to modify their state implementation plans (SIPs) to meet the new standard. On December 22, 2008, EPA designated areas in which U. S. Steel operates as nonattainment and unclassified/attainment for the 2006 fine particle standard. SIPs for the 2006 24 hour standard are due December 14, 2012, with attainment demonstrations with the 2006 standard expected to be made by 2014 or 2019, with extensions. It is anticipated that EPAs fine particle programs could result in significant costs to U. S. Steel. While the SIPs for the 1997 (current) annual standard were due in April 2008, many states and local agencies in which U. S. Steel facilities are located have not yet or are just now proposing SIPs. U. S. Steel is currently reviewing these drafts and proposed SIPs, but the impacts of the anticipated regulations cannot be determined at this time. Furthermore, it is impossible to estimate the magnitude of any costs associated with the SIPs for the 2006 24 hour standard or the remand of the annual standard since the state and federal agencies are still developing regulations for the programs and implementation for the 2006 24 hour standard. Demonstrating attainment with the 2006 24 hour standard is not expected until sometime between 2014 and 2019 and no new standard or associated timeline has been established for the annual standard. Effective May 2008, EPA lowered its ground level ozone air quality standards, which could affect sources of nitrogen oxide and volatile organic compounds, including coke plants, and iron and steel facilities. EPA is required to issue final designations of attainment, nonattainment and unclassifiable areas no later than March 2010 unless there is insufficient information to make these designation decisions. In that case, EPA will issue designations no later than March 2011. States must submit SIPs outlining how they will reduce pollution to meet the standards by a date that is no later than three years after EPAs final designations. If EPA issues designations in 2010 or 2011, these plans would be due no later than 2013 or 2014, respectively. States are required to meet the standards by deadlines that may vary based on the severity of the problem in the area. It is anticipated that the ozone NAAQS revisions could result in significant costs to U. S. Steel; however, it is impossible to estimate the magnitude of these costs at this time since the implementation dates are unknown and distant. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts our operations to be in compliance with such permits. For additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste 26 Table of Contents disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the former Duluth Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred and it is possible that additional sites will be identified that require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had approximately 24,000 employees in North America and approximately 19,000 in Europe. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) that expire in September 2012. The 2008 CBAs resulted in wage increases ranging from $0.65 to $1.00 per hour as of the effective date. Each subsequent September 1 thereafter during the contract term, employees will receive a four percent wage increase. The 2008 CBAs also require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance during the contract period. In early 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the 2009 contribution until 2012. The 2008 CBAs also provide for pension and other benefit enhancements for both current employees and retirees (see Notes 17 and 20 to the Financial Statements). A small number of workers at these facilities, as well as workers at our transportation operations are covered by agreements with the USW or other unions that have varying expiration dates. At USSC the collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Lake Erie Works has expired and a successor agreement has not been reached. The collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Hamilton Works expires in July 2010. All of the agreements in North America contain no strike clauses. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in March 2012. Represented employees at USSS are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in December 2012. Wage increases have been agreed to for all years for both USSE agreements. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. We post our annual report on Form 10 K, our quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, our proxy statement and our interactive data files to our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also post all press releases and earnings releases to our web site. 27 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles, our Code of Ethical Business Conduct and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation & Organization Committee and the Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 2998). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site or the documents referred to in the immediately preceeding paragraph into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income from operations by reportable segment and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 3 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary (Unaudited) on pages F 63 and F 64. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Current Global Recession All segments of our business have been impacted by the global recession and such impacts have created certain new risks and have also affected the other risks set forth below. U. S. Steel and its end product markets continue to be impacted by the global recession. For full year 2009, U. S. Steel reported a net loss of $1,401 million, or $10.42 per diluted share. Raw steel production in our North American Flat rolled segment averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 79 percent and 83 percent of cabability in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and our European USSE segment averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 86 percent and 92 percent of capability in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our Tubular segment shipped 657 thousand tons in 2009 as compared to 1.95 million tons in 2008. Despite some signs of economic recovery, we expect to report an overall operating loss for the first quarter of 2010. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which experienced substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels and this has led to a substantial decrease in oil and gas drilling activity, which has resulted in lower customer demand for the products of our Tubular segment. U. S. Steels operating levels will remain at depressed levels until our customers demand increases. In addition to reduced demand in our end product markets, we believe that some of our customers are experiencing difficulty in obtaining credit or maintaining their ability to qualify for trade credit insurance, resulting in a further reduction in purchases and an increase in our credit risk exposure. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. In addition, the expiration of governmental stimulus programs may have a negative impact on the levels of customer demand. In response to the global recession, we announced that we had substantially reduced our planned capital expenditures for 2009 to conserve liquidity. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long 28 Table of Contents term strategic importance, as we focused on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Unless the current economic situation continues to improve, we may have to delay investments of long term strategic importance. It could also become more expensive to complete these deferred investments at a later date. Moreover, delaying these long term strategic investments could have a negative impact on our cost structure and market position. U. S. Steel is incurring and will continue to incur facility carrying costs when production capacity is temporarily idled and increased costs as we resume production at idled facilities. During 2009, U. S. Steel temporarily idled significant production facilities in all three of our segments in response to economic conditions and customer demand. We continue to incur certain facility carrying costs which could not be eliminated even though the facilities were idled, resulting in higher unit production costs for all three segments. For example, during 2009 in our North American Flat rolled and Tubular segments, we incurred approximately $735 million and $80 million of idled facility costs, respectively. Furthermore, we transferred raw materials to operating locations, and delayed discretionary repair and maintenance and other expenditures while facilities were temporarily idled to minimize costs and preserve liquidity during the idling period. As we restart facilities, we are incurring increased costs to replenish raw material inventories, prepare the previously idled facilities for operation, perform the required repair and maintenance, complete capital projects and prepare employees to safely return to work and resume production responsibilities. U. S. Steel may need to substantially increase working capital when market conditions and order levels improve. As our business deteriorated, we reduced working capital by $1.3 billion in 2009. When market conditions and order levels improve we may have to increase our working capital substantially, as it will take several months for new orders to be translated into cash receipts. In general, availability under our 2007 five year $750 million revolving credit facility, which was amended and restated in 2009, (Amended Credit Agreement) is limited to a monthly borrowing base of certain eligible domestic inventory and availability under our Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) is limited to eligible receivables. We may not have sufficient eligible inventory and receivables to borrow the amounts we need. U. S. Steel may face increased risks of customer and supplier defaults. There is an increased risk of insolvency and other credit related issues of our customers and suppliers, including their need to increase working capital as their businesses improve. We believe some of our customers and suppliers may not have sufficient credit available to them, which could delay payments from customers, result in increased customer defaults and cause our suppliers to delay filling, or to be unable to fill, our needs. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity investees are also being affected by the current global recession. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity affiliates are also engaged in the production of steelmaking raw materials and finishing of flat rolled and tubular products. As such they face many of the same issues we do. Since these entities are smaller than U. S. Steel, they may have fewer resources available to them to respond to the current global recession. Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is highly cyclical, and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow, especially during periods of economic weakness. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in regional markets. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess global supply, which has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. 29 Table of Contents Rapidly growing supply in China and other developing economies may grow faster than real demand in those economies, which may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years, steel consumption in China and other developing economies has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by rapidly increasing steel production capability in those countries and published reports state that further capacity increases are likely. Steel production, especially in China, has expanded rapidly and appears to be well in excess of Chinas home market demand. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any excess Chinese supply could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if this excess and subsidized production is exported to other markets. Since the Chinese steel industry is largely government owned, it has not been as adversely impacted by the current global recession, and it can make production and sales decisions for non market reasons. Increased imports of steel products into North America and Europe could negatively affect steel prices and demand levels and reduce our profitability. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 22 percent of the domestic steel market in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 22 percent in 2007. Foreign competitors may have lower labor costs, and some are owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Imports of tubular products to the United States increased significantly beginning in 2008. Oil country tubular goods (OCTG) imports accounted for a large share of the growth, as they have more than doubled over 2007 levels. Imports of OCTG from China registered the most dramatic increase as they grew from 900 thousand tons in 2007 to nearly 2.3 million tons in 2008. The U.S. market experienced a surge in tubular imports in the second half of 2008 that resulted in record OCTG inventories by the end of the year, which affected demand in 2009 and is continuing to affect demand in 2010. Chinese imports of seamless standard line and pressure pipe increased by more than 290 percent in the three months after the filing of antidumping and counterveiling duty petitions in September 2009, as compared to the three months prior to the filing. Imports of flat rolled steel to Canada accounted for an estimated 35 percent of the Canadian market for flat rolled steel products in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 27 percent in 2007. Total imports of flat rolled carbon steel products to the EU27 (the 27 countries currently comprising the European Union (EU)) were 15 percent of the EU market in 2009, 19 percent in 2008 and 17 percent in 2007. Increases in future levels of imported steel to North America and Europe could reduce future market prices and demand levels for steel products produced in those markets. Imports into the United States, Canada and the EU have often violated the international trade laws of these jurisdictions. While in some cases U. S. Steel and others have been successful in obtaining relief under these laws, in other circumstances relief has not been received. When received, such relief is generally subject to automatic or discretionary recision or reduction. There can be no assurance that any such relief will be obtained or continued in the future or that such relief as obtained will be adequate. Limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in obtaining sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner due to delays or defaults by suppliers, shortages or transportation problems (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or disruption of rail lines, waterways or natural gas transmission lines), resulting in production curtailments. We do not produce enough coke to meet our global requirements and our coke production capability is likely to decline over the next several years given that some of our existing coke batteries in the United States are approaching the end of their useful lives. As a result, we may be further exposed to risks concerning pricing and availability of coke from third parties. USSE is dependent upon availability of natural gas produced in Russia and transported through Ukraine. USSE experienced natural gas supply curtailments during Russias suspension of natural gas shipments to Europe in January 2009. Resulting steel production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins, and any future curtailments and escalated costs may reduce profit margins. 30 Table of Contents Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Steel producers in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the EU, Canada and Japan are generally comparable to U.S. standards, other nations, particularly China, have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Greenhouse gas policies could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create carbon dioxide (CO2). This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States has passed a bill in the House of Representatives and a bill has been introduced in the Senate. For a discussion of these, see PART I Business Environmental Matters. We cannot predict the final requirements that may be adopted in the United States and Canada, or the form of future actions that may be taken by the EU; however, such limitations could entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources, which could have a negative effect on results of operations and cash flows. Since mini mill production does not involve the same chemical reactions as integrated production, mini mills may have a competitive advantage. Also, since China and many other developing nations have not instituted greenhouse gas regulations, and since past international agreements such as the Kyoto Protocol provided exemptions and lesser standards for developing nations, we may also be at a competitive disadvantage with certain foreign steel producers. Many of our customers in the United States, Canada and Europe may experience similar impacts, which could result in decreased demand for our products. Risk Factors Concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Our retiree health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, and our pension plan costs in North America are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans covering most of our North American employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 129,000 current employees, retirees and beneficiaries are participating in the plans to receive pension and or medical benefits. At December 31, 2009, on an accounting basis, U. S. Steels retiree medical and life insurance plans were underfunded $2.9 billion and our pension plans were underfunded by $1.7 billion. Most of our employee benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Minimum contributions to domestic qualified pension plans are controlled under ERISA and other government regulations. Minimum contributions to U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) pension plans are governed by an agreement entered into by Stelco Inc. (Stelco) and the Province of Ontario that U. S. Steel assumed in conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco. This agreement requires defined annual contributions until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. Substantial cash contributions may be required to fund these benefit plans. U. S. Steel contributes to a multiemployer plan in the United States covering pensions for USW represented workers formerly employed by National Steel and workers hired after May 2003. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of this plan, which may have a negative effect on our cash flows. The collective 31 Table of Contents bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) increased our required contributions to this plan from $1.80 to $2.65 per hour. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of this plan. Total costs for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $420 million in 2010, a decrease of $40 million from 2009, while cash contributions for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $570 million in 2010, exclusive of any voluntary contributions we might choose to make. The turmoil in financial markets during 2008 has led to significant declines in the value of equity investments that are held by the trusts under our pension plans and the trust to pay for retiree health care and life insurance benefits. While some of these losses were recovered in 2009, the 2008 losses have contributed to the underfunded position at December 31, 2009. We may be required or may choose to make substantial contributions to these plans. Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and pension plans, and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Benefit obligations under our plans are not tied to operating rates; therefore, our costs are not expected to decline as a result of the global recession or any other future economic downturns. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our results of operations and cash flows. U. S. Steel is involved in numerous remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to unrelated parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. For example, we recorded a charge of $49 million in 2009 in connection with the expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works bringing the total liability for this site to $66 million as of December 31, 2009. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Many U.S. competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Competitors that have obtained relief under bankruptcy laws may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors Applicable to U. S. Steel Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to equipment failures at our facilities or those of our key suppliers. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Production at USSE was curtailed in January 2009 due to the suspension of natural gas deliveries to Europe from Russia transported through Ukraine and we remain vulnerable to this risk. Availability of raw materials and delivery of products to customers could be affected by logistical disruptions (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or unavailability of rail lines or of locks on the Great Lakes or other bodies of water). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by volatility in prices for raw materials, energy, and steel. Approximately 60 percent of U. S. Steels Flat rolled segment sales in the United States are based on sales contracts with volume commitments and durations of at least one quarter, while lesser percentages of Tubular and USSE segment sales are made pursuant to such contacts. These contracts generally have a fixed price or a price 32 Table of Contents that will fluctuate with changes in a defined index and do not always have firm volume commitments. During periods of rapid escalation of raw materials, energy and other costs such as was experienced in 2008, U. S. Steel may not be able to recover these cost increases from customers with existing fixed price agreements. Conversely, some purchase contracts require annual commitments and in periods of rapid decline, such as 2009, U. S. Steel may be faced with having agreed to purchase raw materials and energy at prices that are above the then current market price or in greater volumes than required. If steel prices decline, our profit margins on market based indexed contracts and spot business will be reduced. Declines in the production levels of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which reported substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels, leading to a reduction in oil and gas exploration and development, which in turn has resulted in lower customer demand for our Tubular segment. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. The terms of our indebtedness contain provisions that may limit our flexibility. The Amended Credit Agreement is now secured by a lien on a majority of our domestic inventory and certain of our accounts receivable and includes a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant that applies when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than $112.5 million. Because the Amended Credit Agreement was undrawn throughout 2009, this covenant was not applicable, but based on the four quarters ended December 31, 2009, we would not have met this covenant. The value or levels of inventory may decrease or we may not be able to meet this covenant in the future, and either or both of these situations would limit our ability to borrow under the Amended Credit Agreement. We also amended our $500 million RPA, which among other things increased pricing, reserve factors and percentages; changed the definition of Eligible Receivables, which resulted in an increase in the amount of our receivables ineligible for purchase; and added a change of control provision. Reductions in accounts receivable would limit our ability to sell receivables. In general, availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is limited to a monthly borrowing base for certain eligible domestic inventory. Further inventory reductions could limit availability to less than the potential $750 million. If availability under the Amended Credit Agreement falls below the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million, we would also be subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. This may be a particular problem when market conditions and order levels improve and U. S. Steel needs the liquidity to rebuild working capital. We have granted the lenders under the Amended Credit Agreement a secured position in our most liquid assets, which may be a detriment to other creditors. The Amended Credit Agreement, our Senior Convertible Notes issued in 2009 and our $1.6 billion of Senior Notes issued in 2007 also contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks. Additionally, the repayment of amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and repurchase of the Senior Convertible Notes and Senior Notes is required upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. The Amended Credit Agreement, the Senior Convertible Notes and the RPA have provisions that certain defaults under a material debt obligation could cause a default under the Amended Credit Agreement or the Senior Convertible Notes or termination of the RPA. These terms may affect our liquidity, our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. All three major ratings agencies have downgraded the ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt in the last year. This has caused increases in borrowing costs under our credit facilities. We have been required to and may be forced to provide additional collateral or financial assurance for environmental closure and other presently unsecured obligations. These and any future downgrades in our credit ratings may make raising capital more difficult, may increase the cost and affect the terms of future borrowings, may affect the terms under which we purchase goods and services and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 33 Table of Contents Change in control clauses in our financial and labor agreements grant the other parties to those agreements rights to accelerate obligations and to terminate or extend our labor agreements. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, Amended Credit Agreement, Senior Convertible Notes and various other contracts and leases, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately repurchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. Additionally, the 2008 CBAs give the USW the right to either terminate or extend the collective bargaining agreements for an additional four years. A change of control is generally defined to include any of the following: (a) the acquisition by a person or group of at least 35 percent of our common stock, (b) a merger in which holders of our common stock own less than a majority of the equity in the resulting entity, or (c) replacement of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors by persons who were not nominated by our current directors. Our operations expose us to uncertainties and risks in the countries in which we operate, which could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our U.S. operations are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the United States, which if changed could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, increased regulation, limitations on exports of energy and raw materials, and trade remedies. Actions taken by the U.S. government could affect our results of operations and cash flow. For example, certain health care reform proposals could increase the cost of our health insurance plans for active employees and retirees and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. USSK, located in Slovakia, USSS, located in Serbia, and USSC, located in Canada, constitute 39 percent of our global raw steel production capability. All of them are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the countries in which they are located, and USSK is additionally subject to economic conditions and political factors associated with the EU and the euro currency. Changes in any of these economic conditions or political factors could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, government instability, civil unrest, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. Any future foreign acquisitions could expose us to similar risks. We are subject to significant foreign currency risks, which could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. Our foreign operations accounted for approximately 30 percent of our net sales in 2009. The financial condition and results of operations of USSK, USSS and USSC are reported in various foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. The appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. In addition, the acquisition of USSC was funded from the United States, as well as through the reinvestment of undistributed foreign earnings from USSE, creating intercompany monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities involved, which can have a non cash impact on income when they are remeasured at the end of each quarter. An $892 million U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary was the primary exposure at December 31, 2009. Any future foreign acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Our business requires substantial expenditures for debt service, obligations, capital investment, operating leases and maintenance that we may be unable to fund. With $3,364 million of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2009, we have significant debt service requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2009, total capital expenditures were $3.3 billion. At December 31, 2009, our contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $152 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $173 million under operating leases. 34 Table of Contents In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, steelmaking and steel finishing facilities. As of December 31, 2009, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $173 million, operating lease obligations of approximately $26 million that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, and unconditional purchase obligations, including take or pay arrangements, totalling approximately $11.5 billion. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient, to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. The limitations under our Amended Credit Agreement and RPA, described above, may limit our availability to draw upon these facilities. We intend indefinitely to reinvest undistributed foreign earnings outside the United States; however, if we need to repatriate funds in the future to satisfy our liquidity needs, the tax consequences would reduce income and cash flow. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. Our insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insured retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by the 2008 CBAs, which expire in September 2012. These agreements contain provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USW, grant the USW a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the 2008 CBAs, require us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities and require mandatory pre funding of a trust for retiree health care and life insurance. These agreements also restrict our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further require that the ratio of non USW employees to USW employees at our domestic facilities not exceed one to five. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USW, some foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. We are at risk of labor stoppages. The collective bargaining agreement covering the Lake Erie Works expired in July 2009 and there has been a work stoppage since that time. The collective bargaining agreement at the Hamilton Works expires in July 2010, and we may not enter into a successor agreement prior to that time. There are risks associated with past acquisitions, as well as any acquisitions we may make in the future. Our acquisitions of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) and Stelco created goodwill on our balance sheet which totaled $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, and which exposes us to the risk of future impairment charges. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007 and our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined based on consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or compound annual growth rate, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. The assumptions used will have a large impact on the conclusions reached in future tests. As of 35 Table of Contents December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively. The Lone Star acquisition increased our tubular production capacity by more than 50 percent and the Stelco acquisition increased our North American steelmaking capability by 25 percent, thereby increasing our exposure to cyclical downturns in historically cyclical industries such as oil and gas, service center, conversion, automotive, construction and appliance. The success of any future acquisitions will depend substantially on the accuracy of our analysis concerning such businesses and our ability to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, to finance such acquisitions and to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Our acquisitions in 2007 involved purchase prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our acquisitions in 2003. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations and countries. Antitrust and similar laws in foreign jurisdictions may prevent us from completing acquisitions. There are risks associated with existing and potential tax law and accounting requirements. In accordance with ASC Topic 740, we have not recognized a tax benefit for pre tax losses in jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance for accounting purposes. As a result, the pre tax losses associated with USSS and USSC do not provide any tax benefit for accounting purposes. Significant changes in the mix of pre tax results among the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material impact on our effective tax rate. President Obamas administration has proposed significant changes to U.S. tax law. Some of the proposed changes, such as the repeal of the last in first out (LIFO) inventory cost method, could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow if they are enacted. We may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow in a particular period. Our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. For information regarding our current significant legal proceedings, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. We may suffer employment losses, which could negatively affect our future performance. Approximately 570 of U. S. Steels North American based non represented employees retired in 2009 as part of a voluntary early retirement program and a significant number of those remaining are or will be eligible for retirement over the next several years. 36 Table of Contents Over the last few years we had intensified our recruitment, training and retention efforts so that we may continue to optimally staff our operations, but we instituted a freeze on hiring in early 2009 in response to the global economic recession. If we are unable to hire sufficient qualified replacements for those leaving, our future performance may be adversely impacted. With respect to our represented employees, we may be adversely impacted by the loss of employees who retired or obtained other employment during the time they were laid off or subject to a work stoppage such as currently exists at Lake Erie Works. The cost reduction actions taken in 2009 increased the number of personnel and organization changes and may increase the risk of internal control failures. We may experience difficulties implementing our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. We are currently implementing an ERP system to help us operate more efficiently. This is a complex project, which is expected to be implemented in several phases over the next several years. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP program without experiencing difficulties. In addition, the expected benefits of implementing the ERP system may not be realized or the costs of implementation may outweigh the realized benefits. We extended the implementation schedule in early 2009 to reduce near term costs. This action will delay the realization of benefits from this project and may add to final project costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following tables list U. S. Steels main properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Slabs; Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Plant Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Slabs; Sheets; Coke Lake Erie Works Nanticoke, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke Hamilton Works Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke; Bars Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Slabs; Rounds; Sheets; Seamless Tubular USS POSCO Industries(a) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin mill PRO TEC Coating Company(a) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(a) Dearborn, Michigan Galvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(a) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(a) Jackson, Canton and Taylor, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(a) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(a) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(a) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Baycoat Limited Partnership(a) Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Steel processing D.C. Chrome Limited(a) Stony Creek, Ontario, Canada Roll processing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Seamless Tubular Texas Operations Lone Star, Texas Welded Tubular Bellville Operations Bellville, Texas Welded Tubular Wheeling Machine Products Pine Bluff, Arkansas and Hughes Springs and Houston, Texas Tubular couplings Tubular Processing Services Houston, Texas Tubular processing Tubular Threading and Inspection Services Houston, Texas Tubular threading, inspection and storage services Fintube Technologies, Inc. Tulsa, Oklahoma and Monterrey, Mexico Specialty Welded Tubular United Spiral Pipe, LLC(a) Pittsburg, California Spiral Welded Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Hibbing Taconite Company(a) Hibbing, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Tilden Mining Company(a) Ishpeming, Michigan Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas Transportation services (railroad and barge operations) (a) Equity investee 38 Table of Contents Other Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Koice Koice, Slovakia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Tubular; Coke; Radiators;Refractories U. S. Steel Serbia Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Limestone Apolo Tubulars S.A.(a) Lorena, Sao Paulo, Brazil Welded Tubular (a) Equity investee U. S. Steel and its predecessors (including Lone Star) have owned their properties for many years with no material adverse claims asserted. In the case of Great Lakes Works, Granite City Works, the Midwest Plant and Keetac iron ore operations acquired from National Steel in 2003; the Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia operations acquired by U. S. Steel in 2003; and the Lake Erie Works and Hamilton Works of U. S. Steel Canada acquired in 2007; U. S. Steel or its subsidiaries are the beneficiaries of bankruptcy laws and orders providing that properties are held free and clear of past liabilities. In addition, U. S. Steel or its predecessors obtained title insurance, local counsel opinions or similar protections when the major properties were initially acquired. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease. The final lease payment is due in December 2012 and the lease term expires in June 2013, subject to additional extensions. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. At the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has a supply agreement for various utility services with a company which owns a cogeneration facility located on U. S. Steel property. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. General Litigation In March 2008, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed a previous decision of the Indiana Utilitites Regulatory Commission involving a rate escalation provision in U. S. Steels electric power supply contract with Northern Indiana Public Service Company and a reserve of $45 million related to prior year effects was established in the first quarter of 2008. In June 2009, the Indiana Supreme Court overruled the Court of Appeals, and we reversed the reserve related to this litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel is vigorously defending these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. 39 Table of Contents On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. Asbestos Litigation As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active cases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. At December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 450 active cases involving approximately 3,050 plaintiffs. During 2009, settlements and dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 200 claims and U. S. Steel paid approximately $7 million in settlements. New filings added approximately 190 claims. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. Most of the claims filed in 2009, 2008 and 2007 involve individual or small groups of claimants. Historically, these claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); (2) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel; and (3) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of former operations of U. S. Steel. In general, the only insurance available to U. S. Steel with respect to asbestos claims is excess casualty insurance, which has multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has received minimal payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 210 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or our products or premises; however, with the decline in mass plaintiff cases the incidence of claimants actually alleging a claim against U. S. Steel is increasing. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or our products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing our potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any 40 Table of Contents claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where we believe litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. The following table shows activity with respect to asbestos litigation: Year ended December 31, OpeningNumber ofClaims ClaimsDismissed,Settled andResolved New Claims Closing Numberof Claims Amounts Paid toResolve Claims(in millions) 2007 3,700 1,230 530 3,000 $ 9 2008 3,000 400 450 3,050 $ 13 2009 3,050 200 190 3,040 $ 7 The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. The vast majority of pending claims against us allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. In most cases, the claimant also was exposed to asbestos in non U. S. Steel settings; the relative periods of exposure between U. S. Steel and non U. S. Steel settings vary with each claimant; and the strength or weakness of the causal link between U. S. Steel exposure and any injury vary widely. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, although the resolution of such matters could significantly impact results of operations for a particular quarter. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has declined; (2) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (3) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2009, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the 41 Table of Contents ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of, environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 31 CERCLA sites where liability is not resolved. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs will be between $1 million and $5 million for 3 of these sites, will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site for 8 of these sites, and will be under $100,000 per site for 9 of these sites. At 2 other sites, management estimates U. S. Steels share in the future cleanup costs to be $32 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. One site is known as the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pennsylvania. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation, which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel has completed the remedial design for this site and it is being reviewed by PADEP. The other site is the former Duluth Works, which was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River Interlake Duluth Tar site on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel has prepared a conceptual habitat enhancement plan (HEP) that includes measures to address contaminated sediments in the St. Louis River Estuary. MPCA (on behalf of EPA) has completed its second five year review for the site. As a result, additional data collection will be required to address data gaps identified in the five year review and corrective measures will be required to address the recently discovered areas of contamination on the upland property. Study, investigation and oversight costs along with implementation of corrective measures on the upland property and implementation of the HEP are currently estimated at $26 million. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 45 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 12 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 18 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 8 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million per site. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $5 million per site at 4 sites and in excess of $10 million per site at 1 sites. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining three sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by the EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. As of December 31, 2009, project costs have amounted to $60 million. U. S. Steel completed additional dredging in 2007, and submitted a Dredge Completion Report to EPA in May 2008. Although further dredging is not expected, $1.0 million is accrued for possible additional work that 42 Table of Contents may be required to complete the project and obtain EPA approval. The Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) which received dredged materials from the Grand Calumet River could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to an Administrative Order on Consent (1998) for corrective action. CAMU maintenance and wastewater treatment costs are anticipated to be an additional $872,000 through December 2011. In 1998, U. S. Steel also entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel, following EPA approval of the Dredge Completion Report, will pay the public trustees $1.0 million for ecological monitoring costs. In addition, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $835,000. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects based on the estimated remaining costs was $3.7 million at December 31, 2009. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites: D5, along with an adjacent solid waste disposal unit, Terminal Treatment Plant (TTP) Area; T2; and D2 combined with a portion of the Refuse Area, where a solid waste disposal unit overlaps with the hazardous waste disposal unit. The sites are located on plant property. U. S. Steel has submitted a closure plan to the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) for D2 and the known tar areas of the Refuse Area. U. S. Steel has proposed that the remainder of the Refuse Area be addressed as a Solid Waste Management Unit (SWMU) under corrective action. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a revised closure plan for T2 and separate closure plans for D5 and the TTP Area. IDEM approved the closure plans for D5 and T2 on October 15, 2009 and December 1, 2009 respectively. Implementation of both plans is expected to begin in 2010. The related accrued liability for estimated costs to close each of the hazardous waste sites and perform groundwater monitoring prior to closure is $5.8 million for D5 and TTP, $3.1 million for T2 and $10.9 million for D2 including a portion of the Refuse Area, as of December 31, 2009. On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for SWMUs throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI), a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) and Corrective Measure Implementation at Gary Works. Reports of field investigation findings for Phase I work plans have been submitted to EPA. Four self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had spent approximately $31.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval for a perimeter groundwater monitoring plan and is developing a proposal for a corrective measure to address impacted sediments in the West Grand Calumet Lagoon. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a sampling and analysis plan for the Solid Waste Management Areas east of the Vessel Slip Turning Basin, and a portion of the sediments behind the East Breakwall. U. S. Steel has begun operation of a full scale groundwater treatment system approved by EPA as a Self Implementing Stabilization Measure to address benzene impacted groundwater east of the vessel slip, and continues to operate a seasonal groundwater treatment system near the coke plant. The costs for the above mentioned activities are estimated to be $15.1 million. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval to implement corrective measures necessary to address soil contamination at Gary Works. U. S. Steel estimates the minimum cost of the corrective measures for soil contamination to be approximately $3.5 million. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $6.1 million. Until the remaining Phase I work and Phase II field investigations are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary for Corrective Action projects at Gary Works. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects was $24.7 million as of December 31, 2009, based on the estimated remaining costs. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by IDEM, acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court and thereafter became effective April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel has paid our entire share of the assessment costs and the restoration costs to the public trustees. On November 26, 2007, IDEM issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) alleging three pushing violations and one door violation on the No. 2 Battery that were to have occurred on July 11, 2007. On December 20, 2007, IDEM made a verbal penalty demand of $123,000 to resolve these alleged violations. U. S. Steel provided written responses to the NOVs. Negotiations regarding these NOVs are ongoing. 43 Table of Contents On October 3, 2007, November 26, 2007, March 2, 2008 and March 18, 2008, IDEM issued NOVs alleging opacity limitation violations from the coke plant and Blast Furnaces Nos. 4 and 8. To date, no penalty demand has been made by IDEM regarding these NOVs. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating resolution of these NOVs with IDEM. On July 3, 2008, EPA Region V issued a Notice of Violation/Finding of Violation (NOV/FOV) alleging violations resulting from a multi media inspection conducted in May 2007 and subsequent information collection requests pursuant to Section 114 of the Clean Air Act. These alleged violations include those currently being prosecuted by IDEM that are identified above. Other alleged violations include the reline of No. 4 Blast Furnace in 1990 without a New Source Review/Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit, and opacity limit excursions from hot iron transfer cars, slag skimming, slag pits, and the blast furnace casting house. The NOV/FOV also alleges violations relating to hydrochloric acid pickling, blast furnace relief valves and blast furnace flares. While a penalty demand is expected, EPA Region V has not yet made such a demand. Since issuing the NOV/FOV, EPA Region V has issued additional Section 114 information requests to Gary Works. U. S. Steel has responded to the requests and is currently negotiating resolution of the NOV/FOV and other request issues with EPA Region V and IDEM. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice On February 18, 2009, U. S. Steel received a letter from IDEM alleging that Gary Works was culpable for an ambient air quality exceedance for PM10 at the IITRI Monitoring Site. U. S. Steel responded to the letter on March 13, 2009. U. S. Steel met with IDEM on April 28, 2009 to resolve the issue. If Gary Works is determined to be culpable, U. S. Steel may be required to install and maintain two additional on site PM10 monitoring stations per the December 2006 Air Agreed Order. U. S. Steel continues to discuss the matter with IDEM. On April 13, 2009, Gary Works received a Notice of Violation from EPA Region 5 for alleged violations for New Source Review for reline of No. 13/14 during 2004 2005. U. S. Steel continues to meet with IDEM and EPA to negotiate resolution of the NOV. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. On August 20, 2009. Gary Works received an NOV and proposed Order alleging that Gary Works violated its NOx Trading Budget Allocations in 2006 ozone season. IDEM orginally proposed a penalty of $87,500. Because Gary Works corrected the error from its own allocations and no excess emissions occurred as a result of the NOx accounting error, IDEM agreed to reduce the penalty to $35,000. U. S. Steel verbally agreed to the reduced penalty and is currently drafting an Agreed Order with IDEM. Mon Valley Works On March 17, 2008, U. S. Steel entered a Consent Order and Agreement (COA) with the Allegheny County Health Department (ACHD) to resolve alleged opacity limitation and pushing and traveling violations from older coke oven batteries at its Clairton Plant and to resolve alleged opacity violations from its Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA required U. S. Steel to pay a civil penalty of $301,800 to resolve past alleged violations addressed by the COA. U. S. Steel paid the civil penalty on March 25, 2008. The COA requires U. S. Steel to conduct interim repairs on existing batteries and make improvements at the Ladle Metallurgical Facility and Steelmaking Shop at the Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA also requires that Batteries 7, 8 and 9 be shutdown by January 24, 2013 and Batteries 1, 2 and 3 be shutdown by August 11, 2015. Batteries 7 through 9 were shutdown in April 2009. We are repairing existing Batteries 19 and 20 and we continue to evaluate plans to construct new coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. U. S. Steel is also making upgrades at its Edgar Thomson Plant that would reduce emissions. On September 3, 2009, U. S. Steel Mon Valley Clairton Works incurred a catastrophic failure of its Desulfurization Plant. Because of this event, the Clairton, Edgar Thomson, and Irvin plants have exceeded their sulfur limit for air emissions when burning coke oven gas. The Desulfurization Plant was inoperable from September 3, 2009 through the remainder of 2009. U. S. Steel has provided the regulatory agencies with reports and updates. While no NOV has been issued to date, the Allegheny County Health Department has verbally indicated that it intends to issue a violation notice regarding the inability to desulfuirze the coke oven gas to meet the sulfur loading limits. On October 8, 2009, Mon Valley Clairton Works received a NOV from ACHD alleging that Clairton Works was culpable for hydrogen sulfide (H2S) Pennsylvania ambient air quality standard exceedances. The NOV requires U. S. Steel to submit a plan with milestones to reduce and minimize fugitive emissions of coke oven gas from the coke producing operations at Clairton including identification of coke oven gas emission sources and method of improved emission prevention and control. While U. S. Steel appealed the NOV on October 16, 2009, U. S. Steel 44 Table of Contents submitted an Action Plan to ACHD that was required by the NOV. U. S. Steel and ACHD have performed H2S modeling and are in the process of evaluating all potential sources of H2S in the area. U. S. Steel and ACHD continue to meet and discuss resolution. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a SWMU (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After the acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel has submitted a Closure Plan to IDEM recommending consolidation and in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.0 million and was recorded as an accrued liability as of December 31, 2009. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform an RFI and a CMS at our Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $617,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997. In accordance with the consent decree, U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two supplemental environmental projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the Fairfield Works facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) with the approval of EPA assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works. ADEM is currently reviewing the Phase II RFI work plan. The remaining cost to develop and implement the Phase II RFI work plan is estimated to be $787,000. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc., whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $210,000. In 2006, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of Upper Opossum Creek at a cost of $2.95 million, with a remaining contingency of $18,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. In 2007, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of approximately two acres of land at the former Ensley coke plant. As of December 31, 2009, costs to complete the remediation of this area have amounted to $1.3 million. An additional $49,000 remains accrued for project contingencies at Ensley with an additional $65,000 accrued for the contiguous properties. In total, the accrued liability for the projects described above was $1.0 million as of December 31, 2009, based on estimated remaining costs. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Lorain Tubular Operations In September 2006, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) inviting U. S. Steel to enter into discussions about RCRA Corrective Action at Lorain Tubular Operations. Those discussions resulted in the identification of ten SWMUs and three Areas of Concern (AOC) requiring further investigation and evaluation. In addition, U. S. Steel notified Ohio EPA in August 2009 of an additional SWMU based upon its field observations and a preliminary assessment. Currently, U. S. Steel is implementing a Phase I RFI on the identified SWMUs and AOCs. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has spent $223,000 on studies at 45 Table of Contents this site. Costs to complete additional studies are estimated to be $547,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Great Lakes Works On January 6, 2006, U. S. Steel received a proposed administrative consent order from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the Great Lakes Works facility. On February 13, 2007, MDEQ and U. S. Steel agreed to a revised Administrative Consent Order that resolves this matter. As required by the Administrative Consent Order, U. S. Steel has paid a civil penalty of $300,000 and has reimbursed MDEQ $50,000 in costs. The Order identifies certain compliance actions that address the alleged violations. U. S. Steel has completed work on most of these compliance actions, and has initiated work on the others. One of the compliance actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has completed the corrective measure necessary to remove historical basin sediments from these areas. As of December 31, 2009, $1.8 million had been spent on the project. In addition, $161,000 remains accrued for possible additional requirements to obtain MDEQ approval. Another compliance action includes modifications to the Cold Mill Wastewater Treatment Plant where U. S. Steel has agreed to rehabilitate four clarifiers and two wastewater conveyance pipelines, upgrade the computer control system and evaluate other potential improvements of this system. The vast majority of the elements of this project have been completed at a cost of $8.8 million and U. S. Steel anticipates spending an additional $110,000 most of which will be capitalized. Costs to complete the few remaining compliance actions are presently not determinable. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Great Lakes Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Great Lakes Works violated casthouse roof monitor and baghouse opacity limits; slag pit opacity limits; Basic Oxygen Process roof monitor opacity limits; and certain permit recordkeeping and parametric monitoring requirements. Great Lakes Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the DOJ. Granite City Works U. S. Steel received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004, for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop at our Granite City Works facility. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occurs when coke is pushed out of the ovens, for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. In December 2006, IEPA added to its complaint by adding a release of coke oven gas in February 2006. In October 2007, the Court entered a Second Supplemental Complaint in which IEPA added alleged violations regarding excessive opacity emissions from the blast furnace, and incorrect sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission factors regarding blast furnace gas emissions. On December 18, 2007, U. S. Steel entered into a Consent Order with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA that resolved the Complaint, as supplemented. The Order required that U. S. Steel: (1) pay a penalty of $300,000, which U. S. Steel paid on January 10, 2008; (2) demonstrate compliance with Coke Oven Pushing Operations in accordance with the compliance schedule provided in the Order; (3) comply with the basic oxygen furnace (BOF) opacity emissions in accordance with the schedule provided in the Order; and (4) submit to IEPA a revised permit application with the correct SO2 emission factors, which U. S. Steel submitted in January 2008. On September 30, 2008, U. S. Steel submitted a revised BOF Compliance Schedule and requested to modify the Order consistent with the revised BOF Compliance Schedule. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating with IEPA and the Illinois Attorney General as to what upgrades at the BOF will precede the compliance demonstration. U. S. Steel met with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA on June 11, 2009 to discuss the BOF Compliance Plan and Schedule. While the meeting was productive, the compliance demonstration deadline for the BOF remains indefinitely postponed by agreement of the parties. At Granite City Works, U. S. Steel and Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway), a subsidiary of SunCoke Energy, Inc., have agreed with two environmental advocacy groups to establish an Environmental Trust 46 Table of Contents Fund (Trust), which requires the permittees (U. S. Steel and Gateway) to collectively deposit $1.0 million by September 30th of each year, beginning September 30, 2008 and ending September 30, 2012. U. S. Steel contributed $500,000 to the Trust on September 30, 2008, which amounted to its share of the required 2008 deposit. On September 30, 2009, U. S. Steel contributed an additional $500,000 to the Trust pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. As grantors, U. S. Steel and Gateway have established the Trust as a part of the cost to construct a heat recovery coke plant adjacent to Granite City Works. The capital contribution and all net income of the Trust are to be used for the purposes of promoting energy efficiency, greenhouse gas reductions and PM2.5 emission reduction, to be implemented in the local community where Granite City Works is located. The Trust can be used for projects at public buildings or property owned by the city, local schools, parks and library districts. On February 2, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging approximately 16 separate violations. Specifically, IEPA alleged that Granite City Works: inappropriately charged a battery while off the collecting mains because of (1) damaged coke guides on one occasion and (2) derailment of the pushing control system on two occasions; failed to perform some monthly and quarterly inspections required by Iron & Steel Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards or Coke MACT standards; failed to initiate repairs within 30 days after recording that the baffles on the quench tower were damaged on the monthly inspection report; failed to adequately wash the baffles on the quench tower per the MACT standard; inappropriately used the emergency pour station at the BOP during routine, non emergency maintenance; failed to sufficiently apply a wetting agent to the slag from BF A to minimize fugitive emissions while loading trucks and failed to update and properly implement its Fugitive Dust Program. U. S. Steel provided a written response to IEPA on March 18, 2009 and met with IEPA on April 8, 2009 to resolve the issues identified in the NOV. U. S. Steel supplemented its response on April 29, 2009. IEPA has not made any penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. On March 17, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging the following at Granite City Works: door leaks from B Battery; volatile organic compounds from pressure relief valves from gas blanketing tank; coke by products process unit and information (lacking); failure to report retagging project for benzene in service equipment; and failure to maintain records for benzene in service equipment repairs. U. S. Steel responded to the NOV on May 8, 2009, and met with IEPA regarding the issues identified in the NOV on June 9, 2009. IEPA has not made a penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. In late January 2009, Granite City Works exceeded its natural gas usage and corresponding emission limits for 2008 at designated combustion units, including boilers and ladle drying. A notification letter was submitted to IEPA by U. S. Steel on January 30, 2009. Per U. S. Steels January 30, 2009 correspondence, U. S. Steel provided a Compliance Plan regarding fuel use and fuel balance to IEPA on February 28, 2009. IEPA has not responded to the self reported violations or made any penalty demand. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Granite City Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Granite City Works: failed to apply for an obtain a Prevention of Signficant Deterioration/New Source Review permit for the 1994 B Blast Furnace reline (while the furnace was owned by National Steel Corporation); exceeded BOP roof monitor opacity limits, exceeded blast furnace casthouse roof monitor opacity limits; and failed to complete certain permit recordkeeping and parameteric monitoring requirements. Granite City Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and the current property owner pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality. U. S. Steel developed work plans and completed remediation on certain areas of the site. Having completed the invesigation on a majority of remaining areas identified in the permit, U. S. Steel has 47 Table of Contents determined that the most effective means to address the remaining impacted material is to manage those materials in a previously approved on site Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU). U. S. Steel has recorded a liability of $66 million as of December 2009, for our estimated share of the remaining costs of remediation, including the construction, waste management, closure and post closure of a CAMU. USS POSCO Industries (UPI) At UPI, a joint venture between subsidaries of U. S. Steel and POSCO Industries, corrective measures have been implemented for the majority of the former SWMUs. Seven SWMUs remain at the facility, five of which require further remediation. Prior to the formation of UPI, U. S. Steel owned and operated the Pittsburg, California facility and U. S. Steel retained responsibility for the existing environmental conditions. Two SWMUs may not require further action pending a No Further Action decision by the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC). Of the five SWMUs requiring remediation, U. S. Steel is nearing completion of investigatory work which will result in engineered remedies for two SWMUs. These SWMUs include the impacted ground water at the former wire mill, and the coal tar pitch impacted soils near the old foundry building. U. S. Steel is continuing discussions with the DTSC regarding additional corrective measures that may be required at the three remaining SWMUs within the facility. Arsenic impacted soils and groundwater have been delineated at these three SWMUs. While it is likely that corrective measures will be required at these SWMUs, it is not possible at this time to define a scope or estimate costs for what may be required by DTSC. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Other On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB) entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Implementation of the preferred remedy was essentially completed in late 2007. The respondents are finalizing the Removal Action Summary report by addressing some minor site maintenance issues, deed restrictions and operating and maintenance plans for approval by KDHE. U. S. Steel and SSB continue to work with KDHE to address site maintenance issues. At December 31, 2009, an accrual of $121,000 remains available for these project contingencies. On January 23, 2006, Kansas Department of Health and Environment KDHE sent a letter to U. S. Steel requesting that U. S. Steel address a former zinc smelter site in Girard, Kansas. U. S. Steel completed a site investigation, and submitted a Corrective Action Study (CAS) necessary to address the impacted soils at this site. KDHE approved the CAS on November 17, 2009. In addition, a Consent Agreement and Final Order, through which the remediation will be conducted, remains to be negotiated with KDHE. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has an accrued liability of $1 million to complete the investigation and conduct the remedial measure as proposed in the CAS. In January of 2004, U. S. Steel received notice of a claim from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and notice of claims from citizens of a cap failure at the Dayton Landfill. U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil are the largest PRPs at the site and have agreed to equally share costs for investigating the site, making U. S. Steels share 33 1/3 percent. The Remedial Action Plan for the site was approved by TCEQ in June 2009. On December 10, 2009, pursuant to the Texas Solid Waste Disposal Act, The Cox Road Group (comprised of U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil) filed a contribution/cost of recovery action against apporximately 50 parties in Liberty County, Texas. Implementation of remedial measures is expected to be initiated in 2010. The accrued liability to complete U. S. Steels one third portion of the site investigations and implement the remedial measure was $1.8 million as of December 31, 2009. 48 Table of Contents Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2010, are as follows: Name Age Title Executive OfficerSince George F. Babcoke 53 Senior Vice President European Operations & President U. S. Steel Koice March 1, 2008 James D. Garraux 57 General Counsel & Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs February 1, 2007 John H. Goodish 61 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer December 31, 2001 Gretchen R. Haggerty 54 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer December 31, 2001 David H. Lohr 56 Senior Vice President Strategic Planning, Business Services & Administration June 1, 2008 John P. Surma 55 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer December 31, 2001 Susan M. Suver 50 Vice President Human Resources November 1, 2007 Gregory A. Zovko 48 Vice President & Controller April 1, 2009 All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel or our subsidiaries for more than the past five years, with the exception of Ms. Suver. Prior to joining U. S. Steel, Ms. Suver served as corporate vice president, Global Human Resources for Arrow Electronics, Inc. (Arrow), a $12 billion global provider of industrial and commercial electronic components and computer products. She joined Arrow in 2001 as vice president, Global Organizational Development. Prior to that, she served as vice president, Organization Effectiveness and Communication for Phelps Dodge Corporation. Messrs. Garraux, Goodish and Surma and Ms. Haggerty will hold office until the annual election of executive officers by the Board of Directors following the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or until his or her earlier resignation, retirement or removal. Messrs. Babcoke, Lohr and Zovko and Ms. Suver will hold office until their resignation, retirement or removal. 49 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 61. As of January 31, 2010, there were 20,322 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. Dividends are declared by U. S. Steel on a quarterly basis. For the first quarter of 2009, the dividend declared per share of U. S. Steel common stock was $.30 and for the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, the dividend declared was $.05. For the first and second quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.25 and for the third and fourth quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.30. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds. Shareholder Return Performance The graph below compares the yearly change in cumulative total shareholder return of our common stock with the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poors (S&Ps) 500 Stock Index and the S&P Steel Index. The S&P Steel Index is comprised of U. S. Steel, Nucor Corporation, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated and Worthington Industries, Inc. 50 Table of Contents Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities U. S. Steel had no sales of unregistered securities during the period covered by this report and we have suspended purchases under our Common Stock Repurchase Program. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2009 2008 2007(a) 2006 2005 Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(b) $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 $ 15,715 $ 14,039 (Loss) income from operations(c) (1,684 ) 3,069 1,213 1,785 1,439 Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(c) (1,401 ) 2,112 879 1,374 910 Per Common Share Data: Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(d) basic (10.42 ) 18.04 7.44 11.88 7.87 diluted (10.42 ) 17.96 7.40 11.18 7.00 Dividends per share declared and paid 0.45 1.10 0.80 0.60 0.38 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 15,422 $ 16,087 $ 15,632 $ 10,586 $ 9,822 Capitalization: Debt(e) $ 3,364 $ 3,145 $ 3,257 $ 1,025 $ 1,612 United States Steel Corporation stockholders equity 4,676 4,895 5,531 4,365 3,324 Total capitalization $ 8,040 $ 8,040 $ 8,788 $ 5,390 $ 4,936 (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. (b) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from higher average realized prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe (including favorable foreign currency effects) and higher shipments of flat rolled and tubular products in the U.S. The increase in net sales from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from higher shipments and increased average realized prices prices in all three reportable segments. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2006 to 2007 mainly resulted from higher raw materials and outage related costs in the U.S. and Europe, increased maintenance costs in the U.S., lower average realized prices for tubular products in the U.S. and unfavorable inventory transition effects related to inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco. These were partially offset by higher prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe. The increase from 2005 to 2006 was mainly due to higher average realized prices in the U.S., higher shipments of flat rolled products in the U.S. and in Europe and lower raw materials costs in Europe. These were partially offset by higher raw materials costs in the U.S. (d) See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2009 and 2008 see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from new debt issued to fund the acquisitions of USSC and Lone Star. The decrease from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from the repurchase of most of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due August 1, 2008, and from the repayment and termination of a 195 million credit facility at USSK. 51 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the tenth largest steel producer in the world and the largest integrated steel producer headquartered in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions to produce a wide range of flat rolled and tubular steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil, gas and petrochemical industries. In addition to our facilities in the United States, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Canada through U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) and in Europe through U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), located in Serbia. U. S. Steels financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. While the operating results of our various businesses are affected by a number of business specific factors (see Item 1. Business Steel Industry Background and Competition), the primary drivers for U. S. Steel are general economic conditions in North America, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other benefits costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. Following several years of strong performance, the steel industry and U. S. Steel were quickly and severely impacted by the global recession starting in late 2008. In response to these economic conditions, our strategy has been to enhance our liquidity, maintain a solid balance sheet and position ourselves for success in the longer term. In late 2008 and early 2009, we idled all or portions of numerous steel making, finishing, raw materials and tubular operations in the U.S., Canada and Europe and operated our remaining facilities at reduced levels to match our customers lower demand requirements. We continue to monitor the impact of the economic situation on our customers and to adjust our operations to efficiently meet their requirements. Our raw steel capability utilization rate in 2009 was 48% for Flat rolled operations and 69% for USSE operations. With respect to financial matters, we reduced our quarterly dividend, completed successful offerings of senior convertible notes and common stock and renegotiated the provisions of existing financial covenants with lenders. We initiated substantial cost reduction activities at all locations, including reducing our non represented workforce through restructuring, attrition and early retirement programs. We agreed with the United Steel Workers (USW) to defer certain mandatory trust contributions, implemented a hiring freeze, eliminated merit pay salary increases, suspended the Company match on our 401(k) program, and reduced fees for Board of Directors and base salaries for all general managers and executives. We significantly reduced our capital expenditures for 2009 from the original plan of $740 million to $472 million by focusing largely on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. We voluntarily contributed $140 million to the main defined benefit plan as we still believe that this is appropriate to mitigate larger potential funding requirements in the future. We refinanced $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds extending their maturity dates from 2011 to maturity dates ranging from 2017 to 2030. We finished the year with total liquidity of $2.5 billion, an improvement of nearly $300 million from the average of the previous five year ends. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to earn a competitive return on capital employed by implementing our strategy to be a world leader in safety and environmental performance; to continue to increase our value added product mix; to further expand our global business platform; to maintain a strong capital structure, balance sheet and liquidity position; to continue to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to attract and retain a diverse and talented workforce. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which are impacting the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the level of unfunded pension and other benefits obligations; the degree of industry consolidation; the impact of production and consumption of steel in China and other developing countries; and the levels of steel imports into the markets we serve. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to employee benefits liabilities and assets held in trust relating to such liabilities; the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; goodwill and intangible assets; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations and potential litigation claims and settlements. Managements estimates are based on historical experience, current business and market conditions, and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. LIFO (last in, first out) is the predominant method of inventory costing for inventories in the United States and FIFO (first in, first out) is the predominant method used in Canada and Europe. The LIFO method of inventory costing was used for 49 percent and 39 percent of consolidated inventories at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Equity Method Investments Investments in entities over which U. S. Steel has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are carried at U. S. Steels share of net assets plus loans, advances and our share of earnings less distributions. Differences in the basis of the investment and the underlying net asset value of the investee, if any, are amortized into earnings over the remaining useful life of the associated assets. Income from investees includes U. S. Steels share of income from equity method investments, which is generally recorded a month in arrears, except for significant and unusual items which are recorded in the period of occurrence. Gains or losses from changes in ownership of unconsolidated investees are recognized in the period of change. Intercompany profits and losses on transactions with equity investees have been eliminated in consolidation subject to lower of cost or market inventory adjustments. U. S. Steel evaluates impairment of its equity method investments whenever circumstances indicate that a decline in value below carrying value is other than temporary. Under these circumstances, we would adjust the investment down to its estimated fair value, which then becomes its new carrying value. Pensions and Other Benefits The recording of net periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pensions and other benefits is based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the 53 Table of Contents assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steels investment strategy for its U.S. pension and other benefits plan assets provides for a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality bonds and selected smaller investments in private equities, investment trusts, timber and mineral interests. For its U.S. pension plans, U. S. Steel has a target allocation for plan assets of 60 percent equities with the balance primarily invested in corporate bonds and government backed bonds and Treasury bills. For the Other Benefit plans, the target allocation for plan assets is 65 percent equities. U. S. Steel also believes that returns on equities over the long term will be higher than returns from fixed income securities as actual historical returns from U. S. Steels trusts have shown. Returns on bonds tend to offset some of the shorter term volatility of stocks. Both equity and fixed income investments are made across a broad range of industries and companies to provide protection against the impact of volatility in any single industry as well as company specific developments. U. S. Steel is currently using an 8.00 percent assumed rate of return for purposes of the expected return on assets for the development of net periodic cost for the main defined benefit pension plan and Other Benefits. This rate was chosen by taking into account the intended asset mix and the historical premiums that fixed income and equity investments have yielded above government bonds. Actual returns since the inception of the plans have exceeded this 8.00 percent rate and while some recent annual returns have not, it is U. S. Steels expectation that future periods will return to this level. For USSC defined benefit pension plans, U. S. Steels investment strategy is similar to its strategy for U.S. plans, whereby the Company seeks a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality corporate and government bonds and selected smaller investments with a target allocation for plan assets of 65 percent equities. A 7.50 percent rate of return is being used for the development of net periodic costs in 2010 which is lower than the U.S. pension plan assumption as subcategories within the asset mix are from a more limited investment universe and, as a result, have a lower expected return. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate used to measure both domestic pension and other benefits obligations to 5.5 percent from 6.0 percent. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which we estimate the pension and other benefits liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting the domestic rates, we utilize several AAA and AA corporate bond indices as an indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. For USSC benefit plans, a discount rate was selected through a similar review process using Canadian bond rates and indices and at December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate to 6.0 percent from 6.5 percent for its Canadian based pension and other benefits. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Much of our costs for the domestic USW participants retiree health benefits (other than for most surviving spouses) in the Companys main domestic insurance plan are subject to a cost cap that was negotiated in 2003. As a result of the collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) (see Note 17 to the Financial Statements), our costs are subject to the full impact of escalation for the surviving spouse beneficiaries since their retiree premium contributions are now a flat fixed amount. Escalation applies to most other groups within the Companys insurance plans, but does not apply to most domestic non union retirees since their benefits are limited to flat dollar amounts. For measurement of its domestic retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 8.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2015 and remain at that level thereafter. For measurement of its Canadian retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 7.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2014 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, including multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $270 million in 2010 compared to $271 million in 2009. Pension cost for 2009 included $80 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Total other benefits costs in 2010 are expected to be approximately $150 million, compared to $191 million in 2009. Other benefit costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Excluding the 2009 settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the expected increase in total pension cost is primarily due to a lower market related value of plan assets primarily due to further recognition of the asset losses that were incurred in 2008. 54 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical  1/2 percentage point change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and other benefits calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) 1/2% (1/2%) Expected return on plan assets Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension cost for 2010 $ (52 ) $ 52 Discount rate Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension & other benefits costs for 2010 $ (22 ) $ 32 Pension & other benefits liabilities at December 31, 2009 $ (613 ) $ 658 Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental increase (decrease) in: Service and interest cost components for 2010 $ 8 $ (7 ) Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost over the fair value of acquired identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities assumed from businesses acquired. We have two reporting units that have a significant amount of goodwill. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007. These amounts reflect the benefits we expect the Flat rolled reporting unit to realize from expanding our flexibility in meeting our customers needs and running our Flat rolled facilities at higher operating rates to source our semi finished product needs. Our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition, reflecting the benefits we expect the reporting unit to realize from the expansion of our tubular operations. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. U. S. Steel completed its annual goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of 2009 and determined that there was no goodwill impairment for either reporting unit. Fair value was determined in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820 on fair value, which requires consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable. For the 2009 annual goodwill impairment test, U. S. Steel used fair values estimated under the income approach and the market approach. Although considered, U. S. Steel did not utilize the cost approach as relevant data was not available. The income approach is based upon projected future cash flows discounted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk associated with the future cash flows. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using probability weighted scenarios of future cash flow projections based on managements long range estimates of market conditions over a multiple year horizon. A three percent perpetual growth rate was used to arrive at an estimated future terminal value. A discount rate of 11 percent was used for both reporting units which was based upon the cost of capital of other comparable steel companies, which we view as the most likely market participants. The market approach is based upon an analysis of valuation metrics for companies comparable to our reporting units. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using an appropriate valuation multiple based on this analysis, estimated normalized earnings and an estimated control premium. 55 Table of Contents In order to validate the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units, a reconciliation of the aggregate fair values of all reporting units to market capitalization, using a reasonable control premium, was performed as of the valuation date. We further validated the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units using other valuation metrics that included data from historical U. S. Steel transactions as well as published analyst reports. As of December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively, but would still result in no goodwill impairment charge. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit under the income approach are determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions, including assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or assumed growth rates, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. U. S. Steel has determined that certain acquired intangible assets have indefinite useful lives. These assets are reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long lived assets U. S. Steel evaluates long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of those productive assets exceed their projected undiscounted cash flows. We evaluate the impairment of long lived assets at the asset group level. Our asset groupings are the same as our reporting units. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel determines that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of our deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of our net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. income taxes on undistributed foreign earnings because as of December 31, 2009, it remained managements intention to continue indefinitely to reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2009 amounted to approximately $2,901 million. If such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $870 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss for items that have been or may be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, court case, tax ruling or other authoritative tax position), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2009, the total accrual for environmental remediation was $203 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations. Due to uncertainties inherent in remediation projects, it is possible that total remediation costs for active matters may exceed the accrued liability by as much as 15 to 30 percent. Segments U. S. Steel has three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2008, the operating results of our iron ore operations, which were previously included in Other Businesses, are included in the Flat rolled segment. The iron ore operations are managed as part of our Flat rolled segment, which consumes almost all of our iron ore production. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this change. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels North American integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of slabs, rounds, strip mill plates, sheets and tin mill products , as well as all iron ore and coke production facilities in the United States and Canada. The steel rounds and a portion of the hot rolled sheets produced by Flat rolled are supplied to the Tubular segment. These operations primarily serve North American customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), construction, container, and appliance and electrical markets. Flat rolled has annual raw steel production capability of 24.3 million tons. Flat rolled had annual raw steel production capability of 20.2 million tons for the year ended December 31, 2007 as annual raw steel production capability includes U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Raw steel production was 11.7 million tons in 2009, 19.2 million tons in 2008 and 16.8 million tons in 2007. Raw steel production averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009, 79 percent of capability in 2008 and 83 percent of capability in 2007. The USSE segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and coke production facilities in Slovakia; U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and other facilities in Serbia; and equity investees located in Europe. USSE primarily serves customers in the European construction, service center, conversion, container, transportation (including automotive), appliance and electrical, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. USSE produces and sells slabs, sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill products and spiral welded pipe, as well as heating radiators and refractory ceramic materials. USSE has annual raw steel production capability of 7.4 million tons. USSEs raw steel production was 5.1 million tons in 2009, 6.4 million tons in 2008 and 6.8 million tons in 2007. USSEs raw steel production averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009, 86 percent of capability in 2008 and 92 percent of capability in 2007. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels tubular production facilities, primarily in the United States, and equity investees in the United States and Brazil. These operations produce and sell seamless and electric resistance welded (ERW) steel casing and tubing (commonly known as oil country tubular goods or OCTG), standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. Tubulars annual production capability is 2.8 million tons. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses include transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations and engineering consulting services. For further information, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents Net Sales (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Net Sales by Segment (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2009 2008 2007(b) Flat rolled(a) $ 6,814 $ 13,789 $ 9,986 USSE 2,944 5,487 4,667 Tubular 1,216 4,251 1,985 Total sales from reportable segments 10,974 23,527 16,638 Other Businesses(a) 74 227 235 Net sales $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 (a) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements. (b) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2009 versus Year Ended December 31, 2008 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 40 % 8 % 0 % 1 % 2 % 51 % USSE 20 % 20 % 1 % 3 % 2 % 46 % Tubular 63 % 5 % 1 % 0 % 4 % 71 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The decrease in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected decreased shipments (down 7.0 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $129 per net ton). The decrease in sales for USSE was primarily due to decreased shipments (down 1.2 million net tons) and lower average realized euro based transaction prices (down $295 per net ton including foreign currency translation effects). The decrease in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from decreased shipments (down 1.3 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $286 per net ton). 58 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 versus Year Ended December 31, 2007 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 19 % 19 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 38 % USSE 7 % 18 % 1 % 7 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 40 % 64 % 4 % 0 % 6 % 114 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The increase in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected higher average realized prices (up $138 per ton) and increased shipments, primarily due to the inclusion of USSC for all of 2008. The increase in sales for USSE was primarily due to higher average realized euro based transaction prices and currency translation effects, partially offset by reduced shipments. Including the currency translation effects, reported average realized prices increased $212 per ton from 2007. The increase in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from higher average realized prices (up $706 per ton) and increased shipments, partially due to the inclusion of the former Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) facilities for the entire year in 2008. Operating Expenses Profit based union payments Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Allocated to segment results $ $ 237 $ 119 Retiree benefit expenses 99 Total $ $ 237 $ 218 Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 did not include any costs for profit based payments to employees represented by the USW because the base threshold of operating income agreed to in the 2008 CBAs was not met. Results for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 include costs related to profit based payments. These costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Profit based payment amounts per the agreements with the USW are calculated as a percentage of consolidated income from operations (as defined in the agreements) and are paid as profit sharing to active USW represented employees (excluding employees of USSC) based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. Amounts in 2007 also include costs related to a trust that was to be used to assist retirees from National Steel with health care costs. Pension and other benefits costs Defined benefit and multiemployer pension plan costs totaled $271 million during 2009, $78 million during 2008 and $129 million in 2007. Pension costs during 2009 included $80 million for several voluntary early retirement programs (VERPs) and losses in connection with the sale of a majority of the operating assets of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E). Excluding these losses, the increase in expense from 2008 to 2009 mainly reflected the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Pension costs during 2007 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $20 million. Excluding these losses, the decrease in expense from 2007 to 2008 mainly reflected the improved funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $25 million during 2009, $35 million during 2008 and $26 million during 2007. Costs in 2009 included $13 million for VERP related benefits under these plans. Other benefits costs, which are included in income from operations, totaled $191 million in 2009, $149 million in 2008 and $136 million in 2007. Other benefits costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and 59 Table of Contents curtailment losses. Excluding these losses, the increase in 2009 was primarily due to impacts of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs partially offset by lower costs at USSC as a result of favorable claims experience. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of expenses related to USSC employees for the full year. For additional information on pensions and other benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Nonretirement postemployment benefits U. S. Steel incurred costs of and paid approximately $85 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 related to employee costs for supplemental unemployment benefits, salary continuance and continuation of health care benefits and life insurance coverage for employees associated with the temporary idling of certain facilities and reduced production at others. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $618 million in 2009, $625 million in 2008 and $589 million in 2007. Pension and other benefits costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $164 million in 2009, $47 million in 2008 and $86 million in 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses remained consistent from 2008 to 2009 but were impacted by an increase in pension and OPEB costs offset by a decrease in compensation expense. The increase in 2008 mainly resulted from increased expenses related to our 2007 acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and higher compensation expense, partially offset by lower pension expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization Depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses were $661 million in 2009, $605 million in 2008 and $506 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily related to the fact that effective January 1, 2009 we eliminated the use of the modified straight line method, which was previously used for certain steel producing assets in the United States. The increase in 2008 was primarily related to the full year impact of assets acquired in the business acquisitions during 2007. The modification factors previously applied to straight line calculations ranged from a minimum of 85 percent at a production level below 81 percent of capability, to a maximum of 105 percent for a 100 percent production level. No modification was made at the 95 percent production level. Applying modification factors decreased depreciation expense, when compared to a straight line calculation, by $58 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 60 Table of Contents (Loss) Income from Operations(a) Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 2007 Flat rolled(b) $ (1,438 ) $ 1,390 $ 382 USSE (208 ) 491 687 Tubular 57 1,207 356 Total (loss) income from reportable segments (1,589 ) 3,088 1,425 Other Businesses(b) (2 ) 77 84 Segment (loss) income from operations (1,591 ) 3,165 1,509 Retiree benefit expenses (134 ) (22 ) (143 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Federal excise tax refund 34 Litigation reserve 45 (45 ) Net (loss) gain on the sale of assets 97 Environmental remediation charge (49 ) (23 ) Workforce reduction charges (86 ) (57 ) Deferred gain recognition 150 Labor agreement signing payments (105 ) Asset impairment charge (28 ) Flat rolled inventory transition effects (23 ) (58 ) Tubular inventory transition effects (38 ) Total (loss) income from operations $ (1,684 ) $ 3,069 $ 1,213 (a) See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280. (b) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. 61 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled (Includes USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007) The Flat rolled segment generated a loss of $1,438 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $1,390 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted mainly from unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $2,450 million), lower income from reduced steel substrate sales to our Tubular segment (approximately $400 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities (approximately $360 million), facility restart costs (approximately $70 million) and lower income from equity investments (approximately $190 million). These were partially offset by lower raw material and natural gas costs (approximately $370 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $300 million). The increase in Flat rolleds segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 resulted mainly from higher commercial effects (approximately $2,780 million) and increased income from semi finished steel sales to Tubular (approximately $470 million). These were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials (approximately $1,560 million) and energy (approximately $280 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $170 million) and higher accruals for profit based payments (approximately $150 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. 62 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE The USSE segment generated a loss of $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $491 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $1,300 million) and reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $135 million) partially offset by lower raw material costs (approximately $620 million), reduced facility repair and maintenance costs (approximately $60 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $50 million). The decrease in USSEs segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to higher raw materials and energy costs (approximately $780 million), net unfavorable currency effects (approximately $50 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $40 million) and outage related costs (approximately $30 million), partially offset by higher commercial effects (approximately $740 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. Capability utilization in 2008 was adversely affected by the reline of the No. 1 blast furnace in Slovakia and by reduced operations late in the year to match declining customer demand. 63 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular (Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007) The decrease in Tubulars segment income in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to unfavorable commercial effects (approximately $1,080 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities and facilities operating at reduced production levels (approximately $35 million and $60 million, respectively) and write downs of inventory (approximately $35 million). These were partially offset by lower costs of substrate steel purchases from the Flat rolled segment (approximately $40 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $55 million). The increase in Tubulars segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 mainly resulted from higher commercial effects (approximately $1,580), due in part to the inclusion of results for facilities acquired from Lone Star for the entire year. This was partially offset by increased costs for semi finished steel (approximately $610 million) from Flat rolled and outside sources. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses generated a loss of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $77 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted from the impacts of the global recession and the sale of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E) in the first quarter of 2009. Results for Other Businesses decreased by $7 million from 2007 to 2008. Items not allocated to segments: Retiree benefit expenses increased significantly from 2008 to 2009 mainly due to the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Retiree benefit expenses decreased significantly from 2007 to 2008 mainly due to lower retiree pension expense (See Operating Expenses Pension and other benefits costs) and lower profit based expense related to certain former National Steel employees (See Operating Expenses Profit based union payments). 64 Table of Contents During 2009, U. S. Steel received a federal excise tax refund of $34 million associated with the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales from 1990 to 1992. A litigation reserve of $45 million involving a rate escalation provision in a U. S. Steel power supply contract was established in 2008 as a result of a court ruling and was subsequently reversed in 2009 as that decision was overturned. See Part II. Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings. We recorded a $97 million pre tax net gain on sale of assets in 2009 as a result of the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. The net gain included a pension curtailment loss of approximately $10 million. We recorded a $49 million environmental remediation charge in 2009 in connection with the definition of an expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works. We recorded a $23 million environmental remediation charge in 2008 as the scope of work became defined for an environmental project at a former operating location. Workforce reduction charges of $86 million in 2009 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a VERP offered in the first quarter of 2009 to certain non represented employees in the United States. Workforce reduction charges of $57 million in 2007 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a voluntary early retirement plan offered to certain employees at USSK. We recognized a noncash deferred gain of $150 million in 2008 in connection with the termination of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements. The 2008 CBAs provided for labor agreement signing payments of up to $6,000 per employee which resulted in a charge of $105 million in 2008. An asset impairment charge of $28 million in 2008 resulted from our decision to exit the drawn over mandrel (DOM) tubular products business. The charge was taken principally to write down to fair value equipment associated with the DOM business. Inventory transition effects of $23 million in 2008 and $96 million in 2007 reflected the charges for conforming certain inventories acquired from Lone Star to our unified business model, and the impact of selling inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco, which had been recorded at fair value. Net Interest and Other Financial Costs Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Interest and other financial costs $ 179 $ 179 $ 162 (a) Interest income (10 ) (14 ) (79 )(a) Foreign currency gains (8 ) (103 ) (4 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 26 Net interest and other financial costs $ 161 $ 62 $ 105 (a) The year ended December 31, 2007 includes $27 million of interest expense and offsetting interest income related to the obligation to provide benefits for National Steel retirees that was settled in the fourth quarter of 2007. While the obligation was outstanding, U. S. Steel invested the amount due in short term investments and interest earned on those investments was also payable. The increase in net interest and other financial costs from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to lower foreign currency gains. The decrease in net interest and other financial costs from 2007 to 2008 was mainly due to higher foreign currency gains and the nonrecurrence of the $26 million charge in 2007 related to the early redemption of certain debt, partially offset by increased interest expense resulting from debt incurred to fund the acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and lower interest income. 65 Table of Contents The foreign currency gains include remeasurement effects on a U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan (the Intercompany Loan) from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary related to the 2007 acquisition of USSC that had an outstanding balance of $892 million at December 31, 2009, partially offset by losses on euro U.S. dollar derivatives activity, which we use to mitigate our foreign currency exposure. Volatility in the foreign currency markets could have significant implications for U. S. Steel going forward as a result of the foreign currency accounting remeasurement effects resulting from the Intercompany Loan and foreign currency gains and losses on derivatives activity. For additional information on U. S. Steels foreign currency exchange activity see Note 15 to the Financial Statements and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. Income Taxes The income tax benefit in 2009 was $439 million, compared to provisions of $853 million in 2008 and $218 million in 2007. The tax benefit in 2009 is primarily related to the net loss for the period. The effective tax benefit rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 is lower than the statutory rate because losses in Canada and Serbia, which are jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, do not generate a tax benefit for accounting purposes. The increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily reflected higher income and a higher effective tax rate as a result of a lower percentage of pre tax earnings generated by our European operations. The net domestic deferred tax asset was $731 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $802 million at December 31, 2008. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset from 2009 to 2008 was primarily a result of the remeasurement of the pension and other benefits plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements). At December 31, 2009, the foreign deferred tax assets recorded were $103 million, net of established valuation allowances of $575 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the euro, the Canadian dollar and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian deferred tax assets due to the absence of positive evidence at USSC to support the realizability of the assets. A full valuation allowance is provided for Serbian deferred tax assets because current projected investment tax credits, which must be used before net operating losses and credit carryforwards, are more than sufficient to offset future tax liabilities. As USSC and USSS generate sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $514 million for Canadian deferred tax assets and $46 million for Serbian deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009, would be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. For further information on income taxes see Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Net income Net loss in 2009 was $1,401 million compared to income of $2,112 million in 2008 and $879 million in 2007. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2009 decreased by $717 million from year end 2008 primarily due to lower inventories and lower receivables partially offset by higher cash balances (see Cash Flows). The decrease in inventories primarily resulted from lower quantities of higher cost raw materials. Raw material inventory quantities decreased as U. S. Steel maintained lower operating rates throughout 2009 and reduced raw material purchases as a cash conservation measure. Receivables decreased mainly due to lower sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, due primarily to lower average realized prices. These decreases were partially offset by the recognition of an income tax receivable representing a portion of the federal income tax refund that we expect to receive in 2010 as a result of carrying back our expected 2009 losses to prior years. Goodwill of $1,725 million increased by $116 million from year end 2008 mainly as goodwill attributable to the acqusition of Stelco were reported at higher amounts due to foreign currency translation effects. 66 Table of Contents Assets held for sale at December 31, 2009 consist of certain assets at Hamilton Works, primarily property, plant and equipment, and decreased from December 31, 2008 as a result of the sale of the majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. Total deferred income tax benefits at year end 2009 remained consistent with the balance at year end 2008. Deferred income tax benefits were primarily impacted by an increase in foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards offset by an increase in the valuation allowance, since a full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian and Serbian deferred tax assets, and a decrease in the deferred income tax benefit related to employee benefits. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Current liabilities at year end 2009 decreased by $304 million from year end 2009 due mainly to lower payroll and benefits payable resulting from the absence of accruals for profit based payments and lower accrued taxes resulting from reduced net income in 2009 compared to 2008. Several balance sheet accounts changed as a result of an improvement in the net funded status of our pension and other employee benefits plans. Employee benefits decreased by $624 million and the accumulated other comprehensive loss decreased by $541 billion. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The decrease in the accumulated other comprehensive loss was also due to foreign currency translation effects as a result of the weakening U.S. dollar versus the Euro and the Canadian dollar. The increase in long term debt from December 31, 2008 was mainly due to our public offering in May 2009 of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014, partially offset by the repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. See Liquidity. Common stock and Additional paid in capital increased by $27 million and $666 million, respectively, compared to year end 2008 primarily as a result of our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May 2009. See Liquidity. Cash Flows Net cash used in operating activities was $61 million in 2009 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1,658 million in 2008 and $1,732 million in 2007. This change was primarily related to a net loss of approximately $696 million after adjustments for noncash items in 2009 compared to income of approximately $2.6 billion after adjustments for noncash items in 2008. The favorable working capital change in 2009 of approximately $1.3 billion mainly reflected lower inventory and receivables levels, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items in 2008 compared to 2007 was more than offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency translation effects due mainly to the strengthening of the U. S. dollar and unfavorable working capital effects (excluding the 2007 acquisitions). The unfavorable working capital change in 2008 mainly reflected higher inventory levels and the repurchase of receivables, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities for 2009 was increased and net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 and 2007 was reduced by employee benefits payments as shown in the following table. 67 Table of Contents Employee Benefits Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ 140 $ 140 $ 140 Required contributions to other defined benefit pension plans 79 73 23 Other employee benefits payments not funded by trusts 285 236 213 Contributions to trusts for retiree health care and life insurance(a) 12 228 498 Payments to a multiemployer pension plan 58 33 30 Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts 84 29 17 Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ 658 $ 739 $ 921 (a) Includes $143 million in 2008 and $468 million in 2007 for a company contribution to U. S. Steels trust for retiree health care and life insurance fulfilling the Companys obligation under an agreement with the USW regarding benefits for certain former National Steel employees. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and healthcare by the end of 2011. Capital expenditures variable interest entities was $147 million in 2009 and $161 million in 2008. This primarily reflects spending by Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) for a non recovery coke plant to supply Granite City Works. This spending is consolidated in our financial results but is funded by Gateway and, therefore, is completely offset by amounts included in distributions from noncontrolling interests, which is included in cash flow from financing activities. 68 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2009 of $472 million consisted largely of non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long term strategic importance, as we substantially reduced our capital spending from the original plan of $740 million to conserve liquidity. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $338 million in 2009included spending development of an enterprise resourceplanning (ERP) system, non discretionary environmentalprojects, maintenance on the No. 14 blast furnace at GaryWorks and cokemaking projects at Granite City Works andthe Clairton Plant, including the construction of acogeneration facility at Granite City Works. USSEexpenditures of $113 million included spending at USSK forthe maintenance of the No.3 blast furnace, a coke oven gasdesulphurization project and spending for development of theERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $465 million in 2008 included spending for modernization of our cokemaking facilities, including expenditures for construction of a cogeneration facility at Granite City Works, development of an ERP system and replacement of open pit mining equipment at our iron ore operations USSE expenditures of $210 million included spending at USSK for the reline of the No.1 blast furnace, for replacement of electrical power transformers and to upgrade a continuous caster, and spending for development of the ERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $418 million in 2007 included spending for development of an ERP system, blast furnace stove replacements at Granite City Works and Great Lakes Works, coke oven thru wall repairs primarily at our Clairton Plant and open pit mining equipment and an environmental project at our iron ore operations. USSE expenditures of $215 million included spending at USSK for an air emission reduction project and a new automotive quality galvanizing line, spending at USSS for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace, and spending for development of an ERP system. Construction of the new galvanizing line was completed in February 2007. 69 Table of Contents U. S. Steels contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2009, totaled $152 million. Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to total approximately $530 million and remain focused largely on environmental and other infrastructure projects. We continue to evaluate investments of long term strategic importance, including projects to invest in production of coke and coke substitutes, given that some of our existing coke batteries are approaching the end of their useful lives, to reduce coke requirements in Serbia through blast furnace coal injection, to enhance our Tubular operations in order to more efficiently serve customers increased focus on shale natural gas resources and to allow us to increase our participation in the automotive market as vehicle emission and safety requirements become more stringent. In light of the significant capital commitment that such projects would entail over the next several years, we may seek to secure some long term funding for such projects and general corporate purposes prior to committing to such projects. The preceding statement concerning expected 2010 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, ability to secure long term funding, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, receipt of necessary permits and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Z Line Company reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of pickle lines reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. reflected $2,050 million paid at closing, net of cash acquired of $71 million; plus $14 million of transaction costs to acquire all of the outstanding shares. Acquisition of Stelco Inc. reflected $1,237 million paid to acquire all of the outstanding stock and stock equivalents, $785 million paid to retire substantially all of the outstanding debt and $34 million paid to Stelcos main pension plans, net of cash acquired of $32 million; plus $13 million of transaction costs. Disposal of assets in 2009 reflected pre tax cash proceeds of approximately $300 million from the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E and $36 million from the sale of emissions allowances at U. S. Steel Koice (USSK). Restricted cash in 2009 primarily reflected collateral required on previously unsecured obligations. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2008 primarily reflected amounts drawn against a USSK 200 million three year revolving credit facility, the proceeds of which were used to reduce the Intercompany Loan (see Liquidity), as well as borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Repayments of revolving credit facilities in 2008 reflected repayment of borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Common stock issued in 2009 resulted from our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2009 resulted primarily from our public offering in May of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014. Also in 2009, we issued $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds (ERBs), maturing from 2017 to 2030. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the issuance of $300 million principal amount of 5.65% Senior Notes due 2013, $450 million principal amount of 70 Table of Contents 6.05% Senior Notes due 2017, $350 million principal amount of 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 and $500 million principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018; and our entrance into two $500 million term loans and a $400 million term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2009 primarily reflected repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. Also in 2009, we completed the refunding of $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds. See Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2008 primarily reflected payments on our term loans, including the early retirement of $300 million of our three year term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the early redemption of $378 million of 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010, the early redemption of $49 million of 10% Senior Quarterly Income Debt Securities due 2031 and the repayment of a $400 million term loan. Common stock repurchased in 2008 and 2007 totaled 2.0 million shares and 1.2 million shares, respectively. Our share repurchase program was originally authorized in July 2005. In 2006, our Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2009, 4.4 million shares remained authorized for repurchase. In late 2008, we suspended repurchases under this program as part of our reaction to the difficult global economic environment. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock 4th Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 1st Qtr. 2009 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.30 2008 $ 0.30 $ 0.30 $ 0.25 $ 0.25 2007 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 Liquidity The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2009: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,218 Amount available under $750 Million Credit Facility(b) 638 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 93 Amounts available under USSS credit facilities 55 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,504 (b) As of December 31, 2009, there were no amounts drawn on the Amended Credit Agreement and inventory levels supported the full $750 million of the facility. Since availability was greater than $112.5 million, compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio was not applicable. However, based on the most recent four quarters, as of December 31, 2009, we would not meet the fixed charge coverage ratio if we were to borrow more than $637.5 million. Therefore, we reduced the availability reflected by $112.5 million. 71 Table of Contents (a) Excludes $20 million, $20 million and $27 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, of cash primarily related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership (Partnership) because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. On October 31, 2008, we acquired the equity interests in the Partnership that we did not wholly own. Excludes $1 million of cash at December 31, 2008 related to our variable interest entities. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment and restatement of its $750 million Credit Agreement dated May 11, 2007 (Amended Credit Agreement) with a group of lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (Agent). U. S. Steel simultaneously entered into a security agreement with the Agent (Security Agreement) providing for a security interest in the majority of its domestic inventory. The Amended Credit Agreement established a borrowing base formula, which limits the amounts U. S. Steel can borrow to a certain percent of the value of certain domestic inventory less specified reserves, and eliminates the previous financial covenants that consisted of interest and leverage coverage ratios. The Amended Credit Agreement contains a new financial covenant requiring U. S. Steel to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (defined as consolidated EBITDA less certain capital expenditures and cash income tax expense to certain fixed charges) of at least 1.10 to 1.00 for the most recent four consecutive quarters when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million. The Amended Credit Agreement includes revised pricing and other customary terms and conditions, and will expire on May 11, 2012. For further information regarding the Amended Credit Agreement and Security Agreement, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) that provides up to $500 million of liquidity and letters of credit depending upon the number of eligible domestic receivables generated by U. S. Steel. The commitments under the RPA expire in September 2010. Domestic trade accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. If U. S. Steel decides to access this facility, USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables and if any of them are unable to fund such purchases, two banks are committed to do so. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into agreements which amended the RPA. These agreements increase certain reserve factors and percentages, provide for a termination event if there is a change of control of U. S. Steel, amend the definition of Eligible Receivables, change certain performance triggers and make conforming and clarifying changes. 72 Table of Contents The RPA may be terminated on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, failure by U. S. Steel to make payments under our material debt obligations and any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. For further information regarding the agreements, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. On May 4, 2009, U. S. Steel completed a public offering of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014 and 27,140,000 shares of its Common Stock. U. S. Steel received net proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion and used $655 million to repay all amounts outstanding under its three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Convertible Notes was $863 million. On December 11, 2009, USSK entered into a 10 million (approximately $14 million at December 31, 2009) unsecured revolving credit facility as the sole obligor. The facility expires January 2011. The facility bears interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contains other customary terms and conditions. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the facility. At December 31, 2009, USSK had no borrowings against its 40 million, 20 million and 10 million unsecured credit facilities (which approximated $101 million) but had $8 million of customs and other guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $93 million. At December 31, 2009, USSK had 200 million (approximately $288 million) fully drawn against a 200 million unsecured credit facility. USSK is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The 10 million facility expires January 2011, the 200 million facility expires July 2011, the 40 million facility expires October 2012 and the 20 million facility expires December 2012. During 2009, USSS amended its secured credit facility agreements to limit availability to the value of USSS inventory of finished and semi finished goods. These facilities include an 800 million Serbian dinar overdraft facility and a 40 million revolving credit facility (together approximately $69 million). USSS is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The facilities expire August 2010. At December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings against these facilities and availability was 39 million (approximately $55 million). On May 21, 2007, U. S. Steel issued a total of $1.1 billion of senior notes consisting of $350 million at 6.65 percent due 2037, $450 million at 6.05 percent due 2017, and $300 million at 5.65 percent due 2013, (collectively, the Senior Notes). The Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Notes was $1.1 billion. On December 10, 2007, U. S. Steel issued $500 million of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018 (the 2018 Senior Notes). The 2018 Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the 2018 Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. As of December 31, 2009, the principal amount outstanding under the 2018 Senior Notes was $500 million. We use surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. The use of some forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $150 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2009. Increases in these commitments which use collateral are reflected in restricted cash on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 73 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, in the event of a change in control of U. S. Steel, debt obligations totaling $2,462 million, which includes the Senior Notes and the Senior Convertible Notes, may be declared immediately due and payable. In such event, U. S. Steel may also be required to either repurchase the leased Fairfield slab caster for $45 million or provide a letter of credit to secure the remaining obligation. In the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, obligations of $354 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases, as well as $26 million relating to an operating lease, may be declared immediately due and payable. The guarantees of the indebtedness of unconsolidated entities of U. S. Steel totaled $11 million at December 31, 2009. In the event that any default related to the guaranteed indebtedness occurs, U. S. Steel has access to its interest in the assets of the investee to reduce its potential losses under the guarantee. U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $140 million to the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in both 2009 and 2008. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions of similar amounts in 2010 or later periods in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory contributions in later years. The contributions actually required will be greatly influenced by the level of voluntary contributions, the performance of pension fund assets in the financial markets, the elective use or disavowal of existing credit balances in future periods and various other economic factors and actuarial assumptions that may come to influence the level of the funded position in future years. The 2008 Collective Bargaining Agreements (see Note 17) require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions during the contract period to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance. This contribution is in addition to an annual $10 million required contribution to the same trust that continues from an earlier agreement. Under this earlier agreement, a $20 million contribution is required if the Company does not contribute at least $75 million to its main pension plan in the prior year. During 2008, the Company made $85 million in contributions to the trust under these agreements, as well as a $143 million contribution to cover some of the health and life benefits for certain retirees of National Steel Corporation. During the first quarter of 2009, the Company made a $10 million contribution to this trust. In April 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the annual $75 million mandatory contributions due in 2009 and the $10 million contribution due in January 2010. Further, the USW has agreed to permit us to use all or part of the $75 million contribution made in 2008 to pay current retiree health care and life insurance claims, subject to a make up contribution in 2013. Through December 31, 2009, none of the 2008 contribution funds have been used by the Company. In conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco, now USSC (see Note 4), U. S. Steel assumed the pension plan funding agreement (the Pension Agreement) that Stelco had entered into with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Province) on March 31, 2006 that covers USSCs four main pension plans. The Pension Agreement requires minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and additional annual contributions for benefit improvements, which currently are limited to the union retiree indexing provisions. The defined annual contributions will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. In its acquisition of Stelco on October 31, 2007, U. S. Steel assumed liability for a note issued to the Province of Ontario (Province Note) (see Note 4 to the Financial Statements). The face amount of the Province Note is C$150 million (approximately $142 million at December 31, 2009) and is payable on December 31, 2015. The Province Note is unsecured and is subject to a 75 percent discount if the solvency deficiencies in the four main USSC pension plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements) are eliminated on or before the maturity date. 74 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2009, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Long term debt (including interest) and capital leases(a) $ 4,954 $ 202 $ 943 $ 1,414 $ 2,395 Operating leases(b) $ 173 40 59 34 40 Unconditional purchase obligations(c) $ 11,540 4,442 2,627 1,305 3,166 Capital commitments(d) $ 152 114 38 Environmental commitments(d) $ 203 17 186 (e) Steelworkers Pension Trust $ 286 (f) 54 113 119 (f) (f) Pensions(g) $ 451 83 153 145 70 Other benefits(h) $ 1,940 (i) 415 880 645 (i) Unrecognized tax positions $ 106 106 (e) Total contractual obligations $ 19,805 $ 5,367 $ 4,813 $ 3,662 $ 5,963 (a) See Note 16 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Amounts exclude subleases. (c) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. Additionally, includes coke and steam purchase commitments related to a coke supply agreement with Gateway Energy & Coke Company LLC (See Note 18). (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Timing of potential cash flows is not reasonably determinable. (f) While It is difficult to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, which expire in 2012, projected amounts shown through 2014 assume that the current $2.65 contribution rate per hour will apply. (g) Amounts shown represent projected cash requirements for USSC pension plans, most of which relates to a funding scheme for USSCs four main plans, whereby under an agreement with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Pension Agreement), USSC is responsible for minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and smaller annual contributions for benefit improvements related to prior cost of living adjustments. The Pension Agreement will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015 when minimum funding requirements under the Pension Benefits Act will resume. U.S. dollar equivalents of contributions are based on foreign exchange rates as of December 31, 2009 and shown projected through 2015. (h) Excludes profit based payments that may be required through September 1, 2012, pursuant to the provisions of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments that may be required. (i) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for retiree medical and retiree life benefit obligations which require the use of corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2010 through 2014 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and include mandatory contributions to the USW VEBA trust of $75 million in 2010 and $85 million in both 2011 and 2012. Projected amounts do not reflect optional drawdowns from the USW VEBA trust if U. S. Steel decides to utilize certain options available under its agreements with the USW. Amounts to be used from the VEBA trust will be determined in 2010 and later years. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the asset trust mix, medical escalation rates and company decisions or restrictions related to our trusts for retiree healthcare and life insurance that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Due to these factors, amounts shown above could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. 75 Table of Contents Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table except for the contributions required for USSCs defined benefit pension plans. (See footnote (g) of the above table). U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and other benefits during 2010 and 2011. U. S. Steel may make voluntary contributions in 2010 or later periods to the main defined benefit pension plan in the United States in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory required contributions in later years. In addition to the USSC amounts included in the above table, U. S. Steel expects to make cash payments of $15 million to other pension plans not funded by trusts. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2009, and the effect such commitments could have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 122 $ 109 $ $ $ 13 (c) Surety bonds(a) 18 18 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 33 33 (c) Marathon Oil Corporation(a)(b) 26 26 Total commercial commitments $ 199 $ 109 $ 26 $ $ 64 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) Reflects the amount of U. S. Steels operating lease obligations that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. Our major cash requirements in 2010 are expected to be for capital expenditures, employee benefits and working capital requirements. We finished 2009 with $1.2 billion of available cash. As business conditions recover, our working capital requirements will likely increase and we may need to draw upon our credit facilities for necessary cash. Funding under the RPA and the Amended Credit Agreement is based on a pool of eligible domestic receivables and domestic inventory, respectively, both of which have declined as a result of lower orders and our efforts to reduce working capital. A sudden increase in orders could require a significant amount of investment in working capital. Should we experience a significant increase in orders or an unexpected need for funds that cannot be met with available cash and our liquidity facilities, we may need to access the capital markets. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy our obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Our opinion regarding liquidity is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than recent levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Debt and Senior Convertible Notes Ratings The ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt by Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) are BB and Ba3, respectively. On January 27, 2010, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) lowered its ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt from BBB to BB+ and revised its outlook to stable. Any further downgrades could reduce our access to the capital markets and increase our financing costs. 76 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, a portion of the labor force used by the investees is provided by U. S. Steel, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. In September 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utilities at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a cogeneration facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. U. S. Steel is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay annual capacity and operating and maintenance fees. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, which was effective January 1, 2004. During the initial 5 year period, U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that were annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Other guarantees, indemnifications and take or pay arrangements are discussed in Notes 18 and 28 to the Financial Statements. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations and similar obligations in Europe and Canada, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent that these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that our major North American, and many European, integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that our relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills, some foreign steel producers (particularly in developing economies such as China) and producers of materials which compete with steel, all of which may not be required to incur equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to our prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Many of our competitors do not have similar historical liabilities. Our U. S. facilities are subject to the U.S. environmental standards, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. 77 Table of Contents USSC is subject to the environmental laws of Canada, which are comparable to environmental standards in the United States. Environmental regulation in Canada is an area of shared responsibility between the federal government and the provincial governments, which in turn delegate certain matters to municipal governments. Federal environmental statutes include the federal Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 and the Fisheries Act. Various provincial statutes regulate environmental matters such as the release and remediation of hazardous substances; waste storage, treatment and disposal; and air emissions. As in the United States, Canadian environmental laws (federal, provincial and local) are undergoing revision and becoming more stringent. The Canadian and Ontario governments have identified a sediment deposit in Hamilton Harbor near USSCs Hamilton Works for remediation, which the regulatory agencies estimated several years ago will require expenditures of approximately C$90 million (approximately $85 million). The national and provincial governments have each allocated C$30 million (approximately $28 million) for this project and they have stated that they will be looking for local sources, including industry, to fund the remaining one third. USSC has committed C$7 million (approximately $7 million) as its contribution. Additional contributions may be sought. USSK is subject to the environmental laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). A related law of the EU commonly known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, Regulation 1907/2006) requires the registration of certain substances that are produced in the EU or imported into the EU. USSK pre registered various substances during the six month pre registration period that ended November 30, 2008, both on its own behalf and on behalf of U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries that may be shipping products into the EU. USSK is compliant with REACH and intends to register its substances by the applicable deadlines to remain in compliance and be able to continue its businesses without material change. USSS is subject to the environmental laws of Serbia. Under the terms of the acquisition in 2003, USSS is responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study in June 2004, which was submitted to the Government of Serbia. During 2008 and 2009, USSS spent approximately $50 million to reduce air particulate emissions and undertake other environmental projects pursuant to an agreement with the Serbian government. Many nations, including all where we operate, have or are considering the regulation of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Regulation of CO2 emissions is relevant to the steel industry and U. S. Steel. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States House of Representatives has passed a bill, a bill has been introduced to the Senate and the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified CO2 as a harmful gas. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 North America: Capital $ 28 $ 44 $ 21 Compliance Operating & maintenance 294 409 278 Remediation(a) 19 27 28 Total North America $ 341 $ 480 $ 327 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 55 $ 51 Compliance Operating & maintenance 16 17 18 Remediation(a) 7 18 7 Total USSE $ 90 $ 90 $ 76 Total U. S. Steel $ 431 $ 570 $ 403 (a) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. 78 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 20 percent of total capital expenditures in 2009, 11 percent in 2008 and 10 percent in 2007. Environmental compliance expenditures represented three percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2009 and two percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2008 and 2007. Remediation spending during 2007 through 2009 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at our Fairless Plant and Lorain Tubular Operations. RCRA corrective action programs have been initiated at Gary Works, Fairfield Works and USS POSCO Industries. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. The following table shows activity with respect to environmental remediation liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 410. Environmental Remediation Liabilities (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Beginning Balance $ 162 $ 142 Plus: Additions 57 37 Less: Payments (16 ) (17 ) Ending Balance $ 203 $ 162 New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2010. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $168 million in 2010, $89 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2010 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2011, including $26 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at USSC assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic 79 Table of Contents downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active asbestoscases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional details concerning asbestos litigation see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel will vigorously defend these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Outlook for First Quarter 2010 We expect to report an overall operating loss in first quarter 2010 as gradually improving business conditions begin to be reflected in our operating results. We continue to experience improved order rates from several of our end markets. Automotive, service center, converter and appliance customer order rates in North America and Europe are at or near their highest levels in the last twelve months, while in other markets, such as construction, demand remains soft, but due to the low levels of inventory and the anticipated seasonal increases in activity at the end of the first quarter, our construction order book remains stable for both North America and Europe. A gradually strengthening economy should result in improvements in real demand, while apparent demand will likely be positively influenced by the restocking of the manufacturing supply chain, which we believe is under way. Relatively low levels of flat rolled product imports, if continued, are also expected to support improved order rates. Our Tubular operations are also continuing to experience favorable demand trends, most notably in alloy product at our welded operations in East Texas. At the same time, spot market prices are increasing across all of our segments in response to increased order rates and global raw material cost pressures. We continue to believe that the U.S. and global economies are in the early stages of a gradual recovery. While we are becoming more optimistic, primarily due to improvements we are starting to see in the manufacturing sector, we remain cautious in our outlook for end user demand. 80 Table of Contents Flat rolled results for first quarter 2010 are expected to improve from fourth quarter 2009. The benefits of increases in average realized prices and shipments, efficiencies from increased operating rates and reduced facility repair and maintenance costs are expected to be partially offset by the absence of approximately $55 million of favorable effects from LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Average realized prices are expected to increase from fourth quarter 2009 as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. Increases in our index based contract prices would be realized later as higher published market price assessments enter the index calculations for future periods. We are currently making steel at six of our seven North American steelmaking locations, with the exception being our Lake Erie Works, which represents approximately ten percent of our annual Flat rolled raw steel capability. We expect to complete maintenance work on our largest blast furnace, the #14 Blast Furnace at Gary Works, late in the first quarter and have all available capacity in operation at these six locations before the end of the quarter. Overall, raw steel capability utilization rates are expected to increase from the fourth quarter of 2009. First quarter 2010 results for USSE are expected to be comparable to fourth quarter 2009 as the benefits of increased shipments and operating efficiencies are expected to be offset by higher raw material costs. Euro based transaction prices are expected to be slightly higher than the fourth quarter as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to be lower due to foreign currency translation effects. We completed maintenance work on the #3 Blast Furnace at USSK in early February and we are currently operating all five of USSEs blast furnaces. We expect our Tubular operations to remain profitable in the first quarter. However, results are expected to decrease from the fourth quarter as the benefits of increased shipments are expected to be offset by increased costs as we continue to increase production to meet increased order rates, as well as the absence of $10 million of favorable fourth quarter items related to favorable effects of LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Seamless and welded tubular product prices are expected to improve throughout the quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to decrease as compared to the fourth quarter due to a higher proportion of welded tubular product shipments. We expect increased operating rates at all of our pipe facilities in the first quarter, most notably our welded pipe facility in East Texas. These expected increases should also benefit our Flat rolled operations that supply substrate requirements to our welded pipe facilities. Accounting Standards In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (FAS 167). FAS 167 is a revision to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, and amends the consolidation guidance for variable interest entities. Additionally, FAS 167 will require additional disclosures about involvement with variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure due to that involvement. FAS 167 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 167 will result in the deconsolidation of certain of our current variable interest entities, including, Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC due to the addition of the power criteria in paragraph 14 of FAS 167. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 810, Consolidations Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities, to incorporate FAS 167. In June 2009, the FASB issued FAS No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets (FAS 166). FAS 166 is a revision to FAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, and will require more information about transfer of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and enhanced disclosures when companies have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. Additionally, FAS 166 eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity. FAS 166 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 166 will result in any Receivables Purchase Agreement transactions being accounted for as secured borrowing transactions as of January 1, 2010. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, to incorporate FAS 166. See note 19 for further details of our accounts receivable facility. 81 Table of Contents Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage our market and exchange rate risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain commodity or currency transactions. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the transaction is settled. Once the transaction is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. For further information regarding derivative instruments see Notes 1 and 15 to the Financial Statements. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, through USSE and USSC, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the euro, the Serbian dinar and the Canadian dollar. U. S. Steel historically has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. U. S. Steel has not elected to use hedge accounting for these contracts. Foreign currency derivative instruments have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in net interest and other financial costs. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sales contracts for U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $185 million and $363 million, respectively). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2009 euro forward rates would result in a $19 million charge to income. The fair value of our derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs, which are defined as significant other observable inputs. The inputs used include quotes from counterparties that are corroborated with market sources. Future foreign currency impacts will depend upon changes in currencies, the extent to which we engage in derivatives transactions and the balance of the Intercompany Loan. The amount and timing of such borrowings or repayments on the Intercompany Loan will depend upon profits and cash flows of our international operations, future international investments and financing activities, all of which will be impacted by market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices and foreign exchange rates. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of our business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and zinc, tin and other nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for our products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel has made forward physical purchases to manage exposure to price risk related to the purchases of natural gas and certain non ferrous metals used in the production process. Historically, the forward physical purchase contracts for natural gas and nonferrous metals have qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 815. However, 82 Table of Contents due to reduced natural gas consumption in 2009, we net settled some of our excess natural gas purchase contracts for certain facilities. Therefore, the remaining contracts for natural gas at those facilities no longer met the exemption criteria and were therefore subject to mark to market accounting. As of December 31, 2009, there are no longer natural gas purchase contracts subject to mark to market accounting. Fixed price forward physical purchase contracts entered into for 2010 to partially manage our exposure to natural gas price risk qualify for the normal purchases normal sales exemption. The fair value of our natural gas derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs. The inputs used include forward prices derived from the New York Mercantile Exchange. A 10 percent decrease in natural gas prices for open derivative instruments as of December 31, 2009, would not result in a material charge to income. U. S. Steel held commodity contracts for natural gas that qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption with a total notional value of approximately $44 million at December 31, 2009. Total commodity contracts for natural gas represent approximately 12 percent of our expected North American natural gas requirements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of our non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent increase/decrease in year end 2009 and 2008 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase inFair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 26 $ 0 $ 23 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 4,004 $ 172 $ 2,650 $ 106 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008. (d) For additional information see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on the yield on our public debt where available or current borrowing rates available for financings with similar terms and maturities. For additional information see Note 16 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of our debt portfolio would unfavorably affect our results and cash flows only to the extent that we elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt included 200 million ($288 million) of borrowing under a floating rate revolving credit facility, the fair value of which is not affected by interest rate declines. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 83 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Water U. S. Steel maintains discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA, and conducts our operations to be in compliance with such permits. For additional information regarding enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste 26 Table of Contents disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the former Duluth Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred and it is possible that additional sites will be identified that require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had approximately 24,000 employees in North America and approximately 19,000 in Europe. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) that expire in September 2012. The 2008 CBAs resulted in wage increases ranging from $0.65 to $1.00 per hour as of the effective date. Each subsequent September 1 thereafter during the contract term, employees will receive a four percent wage increase. The 2008 CBAs also require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance during the contract period. In early 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the 2009 contribution until 2012. The 2008 CBAs also provide for pension and other benefit enhancements for both current employees and retirees (see Notes 17 and 20 to the Financial Statements). A small number of workers at these facilities, as well as workers at our transportation operations are covered by agreements with the USW or other unions that have varying expiration dates. At USSC the collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Lake Erie Works has expired and a successor agreement has not been reached. The collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Hamilton Works expires in July 2010. All of the agreements in North America contain no strike clauses. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in March 2012. Represented employees at USSS are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in December 2012. Wage increases have been agreed to for all years for both USSE agreements. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. We post our annual report on Form 10 K, our quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, our proxy statement and our interactive data files to our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also post all press releases and earnings releases to our web site. 27 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles, our Code of Ethical Business Conduct and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation & Organization Committee and the Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 2998). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site or the documents referred to in the immediately preceeding paragraph into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income from operations by reportable segment and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 3 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary (Unaudited) on pages F 63 and F 64. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Current Global Recession All segments of our business have been impacted by the global recession and such impacts have created certain new risks and have also affected the other risks set forth below. U. S. Steel and its end product markets continue to be impacted by the global recession. For full year 2009, U. S. Steel reported a net loss of $1,401 million, or $10.42 per diluted share. Raw steel production in our North American Flat rolled segment averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 79 percent and 83 percent of cabability in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and our European USSE segment averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 86 percent and 92 percent of capability in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our Tubular segment shipped 657 thousand tons in 2009 as compared to 1.95 million tons in 2008. Despite some signs of economic recovery, we expect to report an overall operating loss for the first quarter of 2010. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which experienced substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels and this has led to a substantial decrease in oil and gas drilling activity, which has resulted in lower customer demand for the products of our Tubular segment. U. S. Steels operating levels will remain at depressed levels until our customers demand increases. In addition to reduced demand in our end product markets, we believe that some of our customers are experiencing difficulty in obtaining credit or maintaining their ability to qualify for trade credit insurance, resulting in a further reduction in purchases and an increase in our credit risk exposure. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. In addition, the expiration of governmental stimulus programs may have a negative impact on the levels of customer demand. In response to the global recession, we announced that we had substantially reduced our planned capital expenditures for 2009 to conserve liquidity. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long 28 Table of Contents term strategic importance, as we focused on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Unless the current economic situation continues to improve, we may have to delay investments of long term strategic importance. It could also become more expensive to complete these deferred investments at a later date. Moreover, delaying these long term strategic investments could have a negative impact on our cost structure and market position. U. S. Steel is incurring and will continue to incur facility carrying costs when production capacity is temporarily idled and increased costs as we resume production at idled facilities. During 2009, U. S. Steel temporarily idled significant production facilities in all three of our segments in response to economic conditions and customer demand. We continue to incur certain facility carrying costs which could not be eliminated even though the facilities were idled, resulting in higher unit production costs for all three segments. For example, during 2009 in our North American Flat rolled and Tubular segments, we incurred approximately $735 million and $80 million of idled facility costs, respectively. Furthermore, we transferred raw materials to operating locations, and delayed discretionary repair and maintenance and other expenditures while facilities were temporarily idled to minimize costs and preserve liquidity during the idling period. As we restart facilities, we are incurring increased costs to replenish raw material inventories, prepare the previously idled facilities for operation, perform the required repair and maintenance, complete capital projects and prepare employees to safely return to work and resume production responsibilities. U. S. Steel may need to substantially increase working capital when market conditions and order levels improve. As our business deteriorated, we reduced working capital by $1.3 billion in 2009. When market conditions and order levels improve we may have to increase our working capital substantially, as it will take several months for new orders to be translated into cash receipts. In general, availability under our 2007 five year $750 million revolving credit facility, which was amended and restated in 2009, (Amended Credit Agreement) is limited to a monthly borrowing base of certain eligible domestic inventory and availability under our Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) is limited to eligible receivables. We may not have sufficient eligible inventory and receivables to borrow the amounts we need. U. S. Steel may face increased risks of customer and supplier defaults. There is an increased risk of insolvency and other credit related issues of our customers and suppliers, including their need to increase working capital as their businesses improve. We believe some of our customers and suppliers may not have sufficient credit available to them, which could delay payments from customers, result in increased customer defaults and cause our suppliers to delay filling, or to be unable to fill, our needs. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity investees are also being affected by the current global recession. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity affiliates are also engaged in the production of steelmaking raw materials and finishing of flat rolled and tubular products. As such they face many of the same issues we do. Since these entities are smaller than U. S. Steel, they may have fewer resources available to them to respond to the current global recession. Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is highly cyclical, and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow, especially during periods of economic weakness. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in regional markets. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess global supply, which has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. 29 Table of Contents Rapidly growing supply in China and other developing economies may grow faster than real demand in those economies, which may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years, steel consumption in China and other developing economies has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by rapidly increasing steel production capability in those countries and published reports state that further capacity increases are likely. Steel production, especially in China, has expanded rapidly and appears to be well in excess of Chinas home market demand. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any excess Chinese supply could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if this excess and subsidized production is exported to other markets. Since the Chinese steel industry is largely government owned, it has not been as adversely impacted by the current global recession, and it can make production and sales decisions for non market reasons. Increased imports of steel products into North America and Europe could negatively affect steel prices and demand levels and reduce our profitability. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 22 percent of the domestic steel market in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 22 percent in 2007. Foreign competitors may have lower labor costs, and some are owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Imports of tubular products to the United States increased significantly beginning in 2008. Oil country tubular goods (OCTG) imports accounted for a large share of the growth, as they have more than doubled over 2007 levels. Imports of OCTG from China registered the most dramatic increase as they grew from 900 thousand tons in 2007 to nearly 2.3 million tons in 2008. The U.S. market experienced a surge in tubular imports in the second half of 2008 that resulted in record OCTG inventories by the end of the year, which affected demand in 2009 and is continuing to affect demand in 2010. Chinese imports of seamless standard line and pressure pipe increased by more than 290 percent in the three months after the filing of antidumping and counterveiling duty petitions in September 2009, as compared to the three months prior to the filing. Imports of flat rolled steel to Canada accounted for an estimated 35 percent of the Canadian market for flat rolled steel products in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 27 percent in 2007. Total imports of flat rolled carbon steel products to the EU27 (the 27 countries currently comprising the European Union (EU)) were 15 percent of the EU market in 2009, 19 percent in 2008 and 17 percent in 2007. Increases in future levels of imported steel to North America and Europe could reduce future market prices and demand levels for steel products produced in those markets. Imports into the United States, Canada and the EU have often violated the international trade laws of these jurisdictions. While in some cases U. S. Steel and others have been successful in obtaining relief under these laws, in other circumstances relief has not been received. When received, such relief is generally subject to automatic or discretionary recision or reduction. There can be no assurance that any such relief will be obtained or continued in the future or that such relief as obtained will be adequate. Limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in obtaining sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner due to delays or defaults by suppliers, shortages or transportation problems (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or disruption of rail lines, waterways or natural gas transmission lines), resulting in production curtailments. We do not produce enough coke to meet our global requirements and our coke production capability is likely to decline over the next several years given that some of our existing coke batteries in the United States are approaching the end of their useful lives. As a result, we may be further exposed to risks concerning pricing and availability of coke from third parties. USSE is dependent upon availability of natural gas produced in Russia and transported through Ukraine. USSE experienced natural gas supply curtailments during Russias suspension of natural gas shipments to Europe in January 2009. Resulting steel production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins, and any future curtailments and escalated costs may reduce profit margins. 30 Table of Contents Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Steel producers in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the EU, Canada and Japan are generally comparable to U.S. standards, other nations, particularly China, have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Greenhouse gas policies could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create carbon dioxide (CO2). This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States has passed a bill in the House of Representatives and a bill has been introduced in the Senate. For a discussion of these, see PART I Business Environmental Matters. We cannot predict the final requirements that may be adopted in the United States and Canada, or the form of future actions that may be taken by the EU; however, such limitations could entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources, which could have a negative effect on results of operations and cash flows. Since mini mill production does not involve the same chemical reactions as integrated production, mini mills may have a competitive advantage. Also, since China and many other developing nations have not instituted greenhouse gas regulations, and since past international agreements such as the Kyoto Protocol provided exemptions and lesser standards for developing nations, we may also be at a competitive disadvantage with certain foreign steel producers. Many of our customers in the United States, Canada and Europe may experience similar impacts, which could result in decreased demand for our products. Risk Factors Concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Our retiree health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, and our pension plan costs in North America are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans covering most of our North American employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 129,000 current employees, retirees and beneficiaries are participating in the plans to receive pension and or medical benefits. At December 31, 2009, on an accounting basis, U. S. Steels retiree medical and life insurance plans were underfunded $2.9 billion and our pension plans were underfunded by $1.7 billion. Most of our employee benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Minimum contributions to domestic qualified pension plans are controlled under ERISA and other government regulations. Minimum contributions to U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) pension plans are governed by an agreement entered into by Stelco Inc. (Stelco) and the Province of Ontario that U. S. Steel assumed in conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco. This agreement requires defined annual contributions until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. Substantial cash contributions may be required to fund these benefit plans. U. S. Steel contributes to a multiemployer plan in the United States covering pensions for USW represented workers formerly employed by National Steel and workers hired after May 2003. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of this plan, which may have a negative effect on our cash flows. The collective 31 Table of Contents bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) increased our required contributions to this plan from $1.80 to $2.65 per hour. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of this plan. Total costs for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $420 million in 2010, a decrease of $40 million from 2009, while cash contributions for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $570 million in 2010, exclusive of any voluntary contributions we might choose to make. The turmoil in financial markets during 2008 has led to significant declines in the value of equity investments that are held by the trusts under our pension plans and the trust to pay for retiree health care and life insurance benefits. While some of these losses were recovered in 2009, the 2008 losses have contributed to the underfunded position at December 31, 2009. We may be required or may choose to make substantial contributions to these plans. Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and pension plans, and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Benefit obligations under our plans are not tied to operating rates; therefore, our costs are not expected to decline as a result of the global recession or any other future economic downturns. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our results of operations and cash flows. U. S. Steel is involved in numerous remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to unrelated parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. For example, we recorded a charge of $49 million in 2009 in connection with the expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works bringing the total liability for this site to $66 million as of December 31, 2009. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Many U.S. competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Competitors that have obtained relief under bankruptcy laws may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors Applicable to U. S. Steel Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to equipment failures at our facilities or those of our key suppliers. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Production at USSE was curtailed in January 2009 due to the suspension of natural gas deliveries to Europe from Russia transported through Ukraine and we remain vulnerable to this risk. Availability of raw materials and delivery of products to customers could be affected by logistical disruptions (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or unavailability of rail lines or of locks on the Great Lakes or other bodies of water). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by volatility in prices for raw materials, energy, and steel. Approximately 60 percent of U. S. Steels Flat rolled segment sales in the United States are based on sales contracts with volume commitments and durations of at least one quarter, while lesser percentages of Tubular and USSE segment sales are made pursuant to such contacts. These contracts generally have a fixed price or a price 32 Table of Contents that will fluctuate with changes in a defined index and do not always have firm volume commitments. During periods of rapid escalation of raw materials, energy and other costs such as was experienced in 2008, U. S. Steel may not be able to recover these cost increases from customers with existing fixed price agreements. Conversely, some purchase contracts require annual commitments and in periods of rapid decline, such as 2009, U. S. Steel may be faced with having agreed to purchase raw materials and energy at prices that are above the then current market price or in greater volumes than required. If steel prices decline, our profit margins on market based indexed contracts and spot business will be reduced. Declines in the production levels of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which reported substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels, leading to a reduction in oil and gas exploration and development, which in turn has resulted in lower customer demand for our Tubular segment. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. The terms of our indebtedness contain provisions that may limit our flexibility. The Amended Credit Agreement is now secured by a lien on a majority of our domestic inventory and certain of our accounts receivable and includes a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant that applies when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than $112.5 million. Because the Amended Credit Agreement was undrawn throughout 2009, this covenant was not applicable, but based on the four quarters ended December 31, 2009, we would not have met this covenant. The value or levels of inventory may decrease or we may not be able to meet this covenant in the future, and either or both of these situations would limit our ability to borrow under the Amended Credit Agreement. We also amended our $500 million RPA, which among other things increased pricing, reserve factors and percentages; changed the definition of Eligible Receivables, which resulted in an increase in the amount of our receivables ineligible for purchase; and added a change of control provision. Reductions in accounts receivable would limit our ability to sell receivables. In general, availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is limited to a monthly borrowing base for certain eligible domestic inventory. Further inventory reductions could limit availability to less than the potential $750 million. If availability under the Amended Credit Agreement falls below the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million, we would also be subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. This may be a particular problem when market conditions and order levels improve and U. S. Steel needs the liquidity to rebuild working capital. We have granted the lenders under the Amended Credit Agreement a secured position in our most liquid assets, which may be a detriment to other creditors. The Amended Credit Agreement, our Senior Convertible Notes issued in 2009 and our $1.6 billion of Senior Notes issued in 2007 also contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks. Additionally, the repayment of amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and repurchase of the Senior Convertible Notes and Senior Notes is required upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. The Amended Credit Agreement, the Senior Convertible Notes and the RPA have provisions that certain defaults under a material debt obligation could cause a default under the Amended Credit Agreement or the Senior Convertible Notes or termination of the RPA. These terms may affect our liquidity, our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. All three major ratings agencies have downgraded the ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt in the last year. This has caused increases in borrowing costs under our credit facilities. We have been required to and may be forced to provide additional collateral or financial assurance for environmental closure and other presently unsecured obligations. These and any future downgrades in our credit ratings may make raising capital more difficult, may increase the cost and affect the terms of future borrowings, may affect the terms under which we purchase goods and services and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 33 Table of Contents Change in control clauses in our financial and labor agreements grant the other parties to those agreements rights to accelerate obligations and to terminate or extend our labor agreements. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, Amended Credit Agreement, Senior Convertible Notes and various other contracts and leases, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately repurchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. Additionally, the 2008 CBAs give the USW the right to either terminate or extend the collective bargaining agreements for an additional four years. A change of control is generally defined to include any of the following: (a) the acquisition by a person or group of at least 35 percent of our common stock, (b) a merger in which holders of our common stock own less than a majority of the equity in the resulting entity, or (c) replacement of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors by persons who were not nominated by our current directors. Our operations expose us to uncertainties and risks in the countries in which we operate, which could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our U.S. operations are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the United States, which if changed could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, increased regulation, limitations on exports of energy and raw materials, and trade remedies. Actions taken by the U.S. government could affect our results of operations and cash flow. For example, certain health care reform proposals could increase the cost of our health insurance plans for active employees and retirees and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. USSK, located in Slovakia, USSS, located in Serbia, and USSC, located in Canada, constitute 39 percent of our global raw steel production capability. All of them are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the countries in which they are located, and USSK is additionally subject to economic conditions and political factors associated with the EU and the euro currency. Changes in any of these economic conditions or political factors could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, government instability, civil unrest, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. Any future foreign acquisitions could expose us to similar risks. We are subject to significant foreign currency risks, which could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. Our foreign operations accounted for approximately 30 percent of our net sales in 2009. The financial condition and results of operations of USSK, USSS and USSC are reported in various foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. The appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. In addition, the acquisition of USSC was funded from the United States, as well as through the reinvestment of undistributed foreign earnings from USSE, creating intercompany monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities involved, which can have a non cash impact on income when they are remeasured at the end of each quarter. An $892 million U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary was the primary exposure at December 31, 2009. Any future foreign acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Our business requires substantial expenditures for debt service, obligations, capital investment, operating leases and maintenance that we may be unable to fund. With $3,364 million of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2009, we have significant debt service requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2009, total capital expenditures were $3.3 billion. At December 31, 2009, our contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $152 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $173 million under operating leases. 34 Table of Contents In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, steelmaking and steel finishing facilities. As of December 31, 2009, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $173 million, operating lease obligations of approximately $26 million that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, and unconditional purchase obligations, including take or pay arrangements, totalling approximately $11.5 billion. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient, to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. The limitations under our Amended Credit Agreement and RPA, described above, may limit our availability to draw upon these facilities. We intend indefinitely to reinvest undistributed foreign earnings outside the United States; however, if we need to repatriate funds in the future to satisfy our liquidity needs, the tax consequences would reduce income and cash flow. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. Our insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insured retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by the 2008 CBAs, which expire in September 2012. These agreements contain provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USW, grant the USW a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the 2008 CBAs, require us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities and require mandatory pre funding of a trust for retiree health care and life insurance. These agreements also restrict our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further require that the ratio of non USW employees to USW employees at our domestic facilities not exceed one to five. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USW, some foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. We are at risk of labor stoppages. The collective bargaining agreement covering the Lake Erie Works expired in July 2009 and there has been a work stoppage since that time. The collective bargaining agreement at the Hamilton Works expires in July 2010, and we may not enter into a successor agreement prior to that time. There are risks associated with past acquisitions, as well as any acquisitions we may make in the future. Our acquisitions of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) and Stelco created goodwill on our balance sheet which totaled $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, and which exposes us to the risk of future impairment charges. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007 and our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined based on consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or compound annual growth rate, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. The assumptions used will have a large impact on the conclusions reached in future tests. As of 35 Table of Contents December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively. The Lone Star acquisition increased our tubular production capacity by more than 50 percent and the Stelco acquisition increased our North American steelmaking capability by 25 percent, thereby increasing our exposure to cyclical downturns in historically cyclical industries such as oil and gas, service center, conversion, automotive, construction and appliance. The success of any future acquisitions will depend substantially on the accuracy of our analysis concerning such businesses and our ability to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, to finance such acquisitions and to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Our acquisitions in 2007 involved purchase prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our acquisitions in 2003. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations and countries. Antitrust and similar laws in foreign jurisdictions may prevent us from completing acquisitions. There are risks associated with existing and potential tax law and accounting requirements. In accordance with ASC Topic 740, we have not recognized a tax benefit for pre tax losses in jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance for accounting purposes. As a result, the pre tax losses associated with USSS and USSC do not provide any tax benefit for accounting purposes. Significant changes in the mix of pre tax results among the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material impact on our effective tax rate. President Obamas administration has proposed significant changes to U.S. tax law. Some of the proposed changes, such as the repeal of the last in first out (LIFO) inventory cost method, could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow if they are enacted. We may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow in a particular period. Our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. For information regarding our current significant legal proceedings, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. We may suffer employment losses, which could negatively affect our future performance. Approximately 570 of U. S. Steels North American based non represented employees retired in 2009 as part of a voluntary early retirement program and a significant number of those remaining are or will be eligible for retirement over the next several years. 36 Table of Contents Over the last few years we had intensified our recruitment, training and retention efforts so that we may continue to optimally staff our operations, but we instituted a freeze on hiring in early 2009 in response to the global economic recession. If we are unable to hire sufficient qualified replacements for those leaving, our future performance may be adversely impacted. With respect to our represented employees, we may be adversely impacted by the loss of employees who retired or obtained other employment during the time they were laid off or subject to a work stoppage such as currently exists at Lake Erie Works. The cost reduction actions taken in 2009 increased the number of personnel and organization changes and may increase the risk of internal control failures. We may experience difficulties implementing our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. We are currently implementing an ERP system to help us operate more efficiently. This is a complex project, which is expected to be implemented in several phases over the next several years. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP program without experiencing difficulties. In addition, the expected benefits of implementing the ERP system may not be realized or the costs of implementation may outweigh the realized benefits. We extended the implementation schedule in early 2009 to reduce near term costs. This action will delay the realization of benefits from this project and may add to final project costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following tables list U. S. Steels main properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Slabs; Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Plant Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Slabs; Sheets; Coke Lake Erie Works Nanticoke, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke Hamilton Works Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke; Bars Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Slabs; Rounds; Sheets; Seamless Tubular USS POSCO Industries(a) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin mill PRO TEC Coating Company(a) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(a) Dearborn, Michigan Galvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(a) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(a) Jackson, Canton and Taylor, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(a) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(a) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(a) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Baycoat Limited Partnership(a) Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Steel processing D.C. Chrome Limited(a) Stony Creek, Ontario, Canada Roll processing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Seamless Tubular Texas Operations Lone Star, Texas Welded Tubular Bellville Operations Bellville, Texas Welded Tubular Wheeling Machine Products Pine Bluff, Arkansas and Hughes Springs and Houston, Texas Tubular couplings Tubular Processing Services Houston, Texas Tubular processing Tubular Threading and Inspection Services Houston, Texas Tubular threading, inspection and storage services Fintube Technologies, Inc. Tulsa, Oklahoma and Monterrey, Mexico Specialty Welded Tubular United Spiral Pipe, LLC(a) Pittsburg, California Spiral Welded Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Hibbing Taconite Company(a) Hibbing, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Tilden Mining Company(a) Ishpeming, Michigan Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas Transportation services (railroad and barge operations) (a) Equity investee 38 Table of Contents Other Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Koice Koice, Slovakia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Tubular; Coke; Radiators;Refractories U. S. Steel Serbia Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Limestone Apolo Tubulars S.A.(a) Lorena, Sao Paulo, Brazil Welded Tubular (a) Equity investee U. S. Steel and its predecessors (including Lone Star) have owned their properties for many years with no material adverse claims asserted. In the case of Great Lakes Works, Granite City Works, the Midwest Plant and Keetac iron ore operations acquired from National Steel in 2003; the Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia operations acquired by U. S. Steel in 2003; and the Lake Erie Works and Hamilton Works of U. S. Steel Canada acquired in 2007; U. S. Steel or its subsidiaries are the beneficiaries of bankruptcy laws and orders providing that properties are held free and clear of past liabilities. In addition, U. S. Steel or its predecessors obtained title insurance, local counsel opinions or similar protections when the major properties were initially acquired. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease. The final lease payment is due in December 2012 and the lease term expires in June 2013, subject to additional extensions. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. At the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has a supply agreement for various utility services with a company which owns a cogeneration facility located on U. S. Steel property. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. General Litigation In March 2008, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed a previous decision of the Indiana Utilitites Regulatory Commission involving a rate escalation provision in U. S. Steels electric power supply contract with Northern Indiana Public Service Company and a reserve of $45 million related to prior year effects was established in the first quarter of 2008. In June 2009, the Indiana Supreme Court overruled the Court of Appeals, and we reversed the reserve related to this litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel is vigorously defending these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. 39 Table of Contents On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. Asbestos Litigation As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active cases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. At December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 450 active cases involving approximately 3,050 plaintiffs. During 2009, settlements and dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 200 claims and U. S. Steel paid approximately $7 million in settlements. New filings added approximately 190 claims. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. Most of the claims filed in 2009, 2008 and 2007 involve individual or small groups of claimants. Historically, these claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); (2) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel; and (3) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of former operations of U. S. Steel. In general, the only insurance available to U. S. Steel with respect to asbestos claims is excess casualty insurance, which has multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has received minimal payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 210 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or our products or premises; however, with the decline in mass plaintiff cases the incidence of claimants actually alleging a claim against U. S. Steel is increasing. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or our products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing our potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any 40 Table of Contents claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where we believe litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. The following table shows activity with respect to asbestos litigation: Year ended December 31, OpeningNumber ofClaims ClaimsDismissed,Settled andResolved New Claims Closing Numberof Claims Amounts Paid toResolve Claims(in millions) 2007 3,700 1,230 530 3,000 $ 9 2008 3,000 400 450 3,050 $ 13 2009 3,050 200 190 3,040 $ 7 The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. The vast majority of pending claims against us allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. In most cases, the claimant also was exposed to asbestos in non U. S. Steel settings; the relative periods of exposure between U. S. Steel and non U. S. Steel settings vary with each claimant; and the strength or weakness of the causal link between U. S. Steel exposure and any injury vary widely. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, although the resolution of such matters could significantly impact results of operations for a particular quarter. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has declined; (2) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (3) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2009, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the 41 Table of Contents ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of, environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 31 CERCLA sites where liability is not resolved. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs will be between $1 million and $5 million for 3 of these sites, will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site for 8 of these sites, and will be under $100,000 per site for 9 of these sites. At 2 other sites, management estimates U. S. Steels share in the future cleanup costs to be $32 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. One site is known as the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pennsylvania. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation, which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel has completed the remedial design for this site and it is being reviewed by PADEP. The other site is the former Duluth Works, which was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River Interlake Duluth Tar site on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel has prepared a conceptual habitat enhancement plan (HEP) that includes measures to address contaminated sediments in the St. Louis River Estuary. MPCA (on behalf of EPA) has completed its second five year review for the site. As a result, additional data collection will be required to address data gaps identified in the five year review and corrective measures will be required to address the recently discovered areas of contamination on the upland property. Study, investigation and oversight costs along with implementation of corrective measures on the upland property and implementation of the HEP are currently estimated at $26 million. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 45 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 12 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 18 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 8 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million per site. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $5 million per site at 4 sites and in excess of $10 million per site at 1 sites. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining three sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by the EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. As of December 31, 2009, project costs have amounted to $60 million. U. S. Steel completed additional dredging in 2007, and submitted a Dredge Completion Report to EPA in May 2008. Although further dredging is not expected, $1.0 million is accrued for possible additional work that 42 Table of Contents may be required to complete the project and obtain EPA approval. The Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) which received dredged materials from the Grand Calumet River could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to an Administrative Order on Consent (1998) for corrective action. CAMU maintenance and wastewater treatment costs are anticipated to be an additional $872,000 through December 2011. In 1998, U. S. Steel also entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel, following EPA approval of the Dredge Completion Report, will pay the public trustees $1.0 million for ecological monitoring costs. In addition, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $835,000. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects based on the estimated remaining costs was $3.7 million at December 31, 2009. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites: D5, along with an adjacent solid waste disposal unit, Terminal Treatment Plant (TTP) Area; T2; and D2 combined with a portion of the Refuse Area, where a solid waste disposal unit overlaps with the hazardous waste disposal unit. The sites are located on plant property. U. S. Steel has submitted a closure plan to the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) for D2 and the known tar areas of the Refuse Area. U. S. Steel has proposed that the remainder of the Refuse Area be addressed as a Solid Waste Management Unit (SWMU) under corrective action. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a revised closure plan for T2 and separate closure plans for D5 and the TTP Area. IDEM approved the closure plans for D5 and T2 on October 15, 2009 and December 1, 2009 respectively. Implementation of both plans is expected to begin in 2010. The related accrued liability for estimated costs to close each of the hazardous waste sites and perform groundwater monitoring prior to closure is $5.8 million for D5 and TTP, $3.1 million for T2 and $10.9 million for D2 including a portion of the Refuse Area, as of December 31, 2009. On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for SWMUs throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI), a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) and Corrective Measure Implementation at Gary Works. Reports of field investigation findings for Phase I work plans have been submitted to EPA. Four self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had spent approximately $31.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval for a perimeter groundwater monitoring plan and is developing a proposal for a corrective measure to address impacted sediments in the West Grand Calumet Lagoon. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a sampling and analysis plan for the Solid Waste Management Areas east of the Vessel Slip Turning Basin, and a portion of the sediments behind the East Breakwall. U. S. Steel has begun operation of a full scale groundwater treatment system approved by EPA as a Self Implementing Stabilization Measure to address benzene impacted groundwater east of the vessel slip, and continues to operate a seasonal groundwater treatment system near the coke plant. The costs for the above mentioned activities are estimated to be $15.1 million. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval to implement corrective measures necessary to address soil contamination at Gary Works. U. S. Steel estimates the minimum cost of the corrective measures for soil contamination to be approximately $3.5 million. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $6.1 million. Until the remaining Phase I work and Phase II field investigations are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary for Corrective Action projects at Gary Works. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects was $24.7 million as of December 31, 2009, based on the estimated remaining costs. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by IDEM, acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court and thereafter became effective April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel has paid our entire share of the assessment costs and the restoration costs to the public trustees. On November 26, 2007, IDEM issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) alleging three pushing violations and one door violation on the No. 2 Battery that were to have occurred on July 11, 2007. On December 20, 2007, IDEM made a verbal penalty demand of $123,000 to resolve these alleged violations. U. S. Steel provided written responses to the NOVs. Negotiations regarding these NOVs are ongoing. 43 Table of Contents On October 3, 2007, November 26, 2007, March 2, 2008 and March 18, 2008, IDEM issued NOVs alleging opacity limitation violations from the coke plant and Blast Furnaces Nos. 4 and 8. To date, no penalty demand has been made by IDEM regarding these NOVs. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating resolution of these NOVs with IDEM. On July 3, 2008, EPA Region V issued a Notice of Violation/Finding of Violation (NOV/FOV) alleging violations resulting from a multi media inspection conducted in May 2007 and subsequent information collection requests pursuant to Section 114 of the Clean Air Act. These alleged violations include those currently being prosecuted by IDEM that are identified above. Other alleged violations include the reline of No. 4 Blast Furnace in 1990 without a New Source Review/Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit, and opacity limit excursions from hot iron transfer cars, slag skimming, slag pits, and the blast furnace casting house. The NOV/FOV also alleges violations relating to hydrochloric acid pickling, blast furnace relief valves and blast furnace flares. While a penalty demand is expected, EPA Region V has not yet made such a demand. Since issuing the NOV/FOV, EPA Region V has issued additional Section 114 information requests to Gary Works. U. S. Steel has responded to the requests and is currently negotiating resolution of the NOV/FOV and other request issues with EPA Region V and IDEM. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice On February 18, 2009, U. S. Steel received a letter from IDEM alleging that Gary Works was culpable for an ambient air quality exceedance for PM10 at the IITRI Monitoring Site. U. S. Steel responded to the letter on March 13, 2009. U. S. Steel met with IDEM on April 28, 2009 to resolve the issue. If Gary Works is determined to be culpable, U. S. Steel may be required to install and maintain two additional on site PM10 monitoring stations per the December 2006 Air Agreed Order. U. S. Steel continues to discuss the matter with IDEM. On April 13, 2009, Gary Works received a Notice of Violation from EPA Region 5 for alleged violations for New Source Review for reline of No. 13/14 during 2004 2005. U. S. Steel continues to meet with IDEM and EPA to negotiate resolution of the NOV. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. On August 20, 2009. Gary Works received an NOV and proposed Order alleging that Gary Works violated its NOx Trading Budget Allocations in 2006 ozone season. IDEM orginally proposed a penalty of $87,500. Because Gary Works corrected the error from its own allocations and no excess emissions occurred as a result of the NOx accounting error, IDEM agreed to reduce the penalty to $35,000. U. S. Steel verbally agreed to the reduced penalty and is currently drafting an Agreed Order with IDEM. Mon Valley Works On March 17, 2008, U. S. Steel entered a Consent Order and Agreement (COA) with the Allegheny County Health Department (ACHD) to resolve alleged opacity limitation and pushing and traveling violations from older coke oven batteries at its Clairton Plant and to resolve alleged opacity violations from its Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA required U. S. Steel to pay a civil penalty of $301,800 to resolve past alleged violations addressed by the COA. U. S. Steel paid the civil penalty on March 25, 2008. The COA requires U. S. Steel to conduct interim repairs on existing batteries and make improvements at the Ladle Metallurgical Facility and Steelmaking Shop at the Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA also requires that Batteries 7, 8 and 9 be shutdown by January 24, 2013 and Batteries 1, 2 and 3 be shutdown by August 11, 2015. Batteries 7 through 9 were shutdown in April 2009. We are repairing existing Batteries 19 and 20 and we continue to evaluate plans to construct new coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. U. S. Steel is also making upgrades at its Edgar Thomson Plant that would reduce emissions. On September 3, 2009, U. S. Steel Mon Valley Clairton Works incurred a catastrophic failure of its Desulfurization Plant. Because of this event, the Clairton, Edgar Thomson, and Irvin plants have exceeded their sulfur limit for air emissions when burning coke oven gas. The Desulfurization Plant was inoperable from September 3, 2009 through the remainder of 2009. U. S. Steel has provided the regulatory agencies with reports and updates. While no NOV has been issued to date, the Allegheny County Health Department has verbally indicated that it intends to issue a violation notice regarding the inability to desulfuirze the coke oven gas to meet the sulfur loading limits. On October 8, 2009, Mon Valley Clairton Works received a NOV from ACHD alleging that Clairton Works was culpable for hydrogen sulfide (H2S) Pennsylvania ambient air quality standard exceedances. The NOV requires U. S. Steel to submit a plan with milestones to reduce and minimize fugitive emissions of coke oven gas from the coke producing operations at Clairton including identification of coke oven gas emission sources and method of improved emission prevention and control. While U. S. Steel appealed the NOV on October 16, 2009, U. S. Steel 44 Table of Contents submitted an Action Plan to ACHD that was required by the NOV. U. S. Steel and ACHD have performed H2S modeling and are in the process of evaluating all potential sources of H2S in the area. U. S. Steel and ACHD continue to meet and discuss resolution. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a SWMU (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After the acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel has submitted a Closure Plan to IDEM recommending consolidation and in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.0 million and was recorded as an accrued liability as of December 31, 2009. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform an RFI and a CMS at our Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $617,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997. In accordance with the consent decree, U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two supplemental environmental projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the Fairfield Works facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) with the approval of EPA assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works. ADEM is currently reviewing the Phase II RFI work plan. The remaining cost to develop and implement the Phase II RFI work plan is estimated to be $787,000. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc., whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $210,000. In 2006, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of Upper Opossum Creek at a cost of $2.95 million, with a remaining contingency of $18,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. In 2007, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of approximately two acres of land at the former Ensley coke plant. As of December 31, 2009, costs to complete the remediation of this area have amounted to $1.3 million. An additional $49,000 remains accrued for project contingencies at Ensley with an additional $65,000 accrued for the contiguous properties. In total, the accrued liability for the projects described above was $1.0 million as of December 31, 2009, based on estimated remaining costs. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Lorain Tubular Operations In September 2006, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) inviting U. S. Steel to enter into discussions about RCRA Corrective Action at Lorain Tubular Operations. Those discussions resulted in the identification of ten SWMUs and three Areas of Concern (AOC) requiring further investigation and evaluation. In addition, U. S. Steel notified Ohio EPA in August 2009 of an additional SWMU based upon its field observations and a preliminary assessment. Currently, U. S. Steel is implementing a Phase I RFI on the identified SWMUs and AOCs. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has spent $223,000 on studies at 45 Table of Contents this site. Costs to complete additional studies are estimated to be $547,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Great Lakes Works On January 6, 2006, U. S. Steel received a proposed administrative consent order from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the Great Lakes Works facility. On February 13, 2007, MDEQ and U. S. Steel agreed to a revised Administrative Consent Order that resolves this matter. As required by the Administrative Consent Order, U. S. Steel has paid a civil penalty of $300,000 and has reimbursed MDEQ $50,000 in costs. The Order identifies certain compliance actions that address the alleged violations. U. S. Steel has completed work on most of these compliance actions, and has initiated work on the others. One of the compliance actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has completed the corrective measure necessary to remove historical basin sediments from these areas. As of December 31, 2009, $1.8 million had been spent on the project. In addition, $161,000 remains accrued for possible additional requirements to obtain MDEQ approval. Another compliance action includes modifications to the Cold Mill Wastewater Treatment Plant where U. S. Steel has agreed to rehabilitate four clarifiers and two wastewater conveyance pipelines, upgrade the computer control system and evaluate other potential improvements of this system. The vast majority of the elements of this project have been completed at a cost of $8.8 million and U. S. Steel anticipates spending an additional $110,000 most of which will be capitalized. Costs to complete the few remaining compliance actions are presently not determinable. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Great Lakes Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Great Lakes Works violated casthouse roof monitor and baghouse opacity limits; slag pit opacity limits; Basic Oxygen Process roof monitor opacity limits; and certain permit recordkeeping and parametric monitoring requirements. Great Lakes Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the DOJ. Granite City Works U. S. Steel received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004, for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop at our Granite City Works facility. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occurs when coke is pushed out of the ovens, for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. In December 2006, IEPA added to its complaint by adding a release of coke oven gas in February 2006. In October 2007, the Court entered a Second Supplemental Complaint in which IEPA added alleged violations regarding excessive opacity emissions from the blast furnace, and incorrect sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission factors regarding blast furnace gas emissions. On December 18, 2007, U. S. Steel entered into a Consent Order with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA that resolved the Complaint, as supplemented. The Order required that U. S. Steel: (1) pay a penalty of $300,000, which U. S. Steel paid on January 10, 2008; (2) demonstrate compliance with Coke Oven Pushing Operations in accordance with the compliance schedule provided in the Order; (3) comply with the basic oxygen furnace (BOF) opacity emissions in accordance with the schedule provided in the Order; and (4) submit to IEPA a revised permit application with the correct SO2 emission factors, which U. S. Steel submitted in January 2008. On September 30, 2008, U. S. Steel submitted a revised BOF Compliance Schedule and requested to modify the Order consistent with the revised BOF Compliance Schedule. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating with IEPA and the Illinois Attorney General as to what upgrades at the BOF will precede the compliance demonstration. U. S. Steel met with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA on June 11, 2009 to discuss the BOF Compliance Plan and Schedule. While the meeting was productive, the compliance demonstration deadline for the BOF remains indefinitely postponed by agreement of the parties. At Granite City Works, U. S. Steel and Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway), a subsidiary of SunCoke Energy, Inc., have agreed with two environmental advocacy groups to establish an Environmental Trust 46 Table of Contents Fund (Trust), which requires the permittees (U. S. Steel and Gateway) to collectively deposit $1.0 million by September 30th of each year, beginning September 30, 2008 and ending September 30, 2012. U. S. Steel contributed $500,000 to the Trust on September 30, 2008, which amounted to its share of the required 2008 deposit. On September 30, 2009, U. S. Steel contributed an additional $500,000 to the Trust pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. As grantors, U. S. Steel and Gateway have established the Trust as a part of the cost to construct a heat recovery coke plant adjacent to Granite City Works. The capital contribution and all net income of the Trust are to be used for the purposes of promoting energy efficiency, greenhouse gas reductions and PM2.5 emission reduction, to be implemented in the local community where Granite City Works is located. The Trust can be used for projects at public buildings or property owned by the city, local schools, parks and library districts. On February 2, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging approximately 16 separate violations. Specifically, IEPA alleged that Granite City Works: inappropriately charged a battery while off the collecting mains because of (1) damaged coke guides on one occasion and (2) derailment of the pushing control system on two occasions; failed to perform some monthly and quarterly inspections required by Iron & Steel Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards or Coke MACT standards; failed to initiate repairs within 30 days after recording that the baffles on the quench tower were damaged on the monthly inspection report; failed to adequately wash the baffles on the quench tower per the MACT standard; inappropriately used the emergency pour station at the BOP during routine, non emergency maintenance; failed to sufficiently apply a wetting agent to the slag from BF A to minimize fugitive emissions while loading trucks and failed to update and properly implement its Fugitive Dust Program. U. S. Steel provided a written response to IEPA on March 18, 2009 and met with IEPA on April 8, 2009 to resolve the issues identified in the NOV. U. S. Steel supplemented its response on April 29, 2009. IEPA has not made any penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. On March 17, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging the following at Granite City Works: door leaks from B Battery; volatile organic compounds from pressure relief valves from gas blanketing tank; coke by products process unit and information (lacking); failure to report retagging project for benzene in service equipment; and failure to maintain records for benzene in service equipment repairs. U. S. Steel responded to the NOV on May 8, 2009, and met with IEPA regarding the issues identified in the NOV on June 9, 2009. IEPA has not made a penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. In late January 2009, Granite City Works exceeded its natural gas usage and corresponding emission limits for 2008 at designated combustion units, including boilers and ladle drying. A notification letter was submitted to IEPA by U. S. Steel on January 30, 2009. Per U. S. Steels January 30, 2009 correspondence, U. S. Steel provided a Compliance Plan regarding fuel use and fuel balance to IEPA on February 28, 2009. IEPA has not responded to the self reported violations or made any penalty demand. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Granite City Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Granite City Works: failed to apply for an obtain a Prevention of Signficant Deterioration/New Source Review permit for the 1994 B Blast Furnace reline (while the furnace was owned by National Steel Corporation); exceeded BOP roof monitor opacity limits, exceeded blast furnace casthouse roof monitor opacity limits; and failed to complete certain permit recordkeeping and parameteric monitoring requirements. Granite City Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and the current property owner pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality. U. S. Steel developed work plans and completed remediation on certain areas of the site. Having completed the invesigation on a majority of remaining areas identified in the permit, U. S. Steel has 47 Table of Contents determined that the most effective means to address the remaining impacted material is to manage those materials in a previously approved on site Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU). U. S. Steel has recorded a liability of $66 million as of December 2009, for our estimated share of the remaining costs of remediation, including the construction, waste management, closure and post closure of a CAMU. USS POSCO Industries (UPI) At UPI, a joint venture between subsidaries of U. S. Steel and POSCO Industries, corrective measures have been implemented for the majority of the former SWMUs. Seven SWMUs remain at the facility, five of which require further remediation. Prior to the formation of UPI, U. S. Steel owned and operated the Pittsburg, California facility and U. S. Steel retained responsibility for the existing environmental conditions. Two SWMUs may not require further action pending a No Further Action decision by the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC). Of the five SWMUs requiring remediation, U. S. Steel is nearing completion of investigatory work which will result in engineered remedies for two SWMUs. These SWMUs include the impacted ground water at the former wire mill, and the coal tar pitch impacted soils near the old foundry building. U. S. Steel is continuing discussions with the DTSC regarding additional corrective measures that may be required at the three remaining SWMUs within the facility. Arsenic impacted soils and groundwater have been delineated at these three SWMUs. While it is likely that corrective measures will be required at these SWMUs, it is not possible at this time to define a scope or estimate costs for what may be required by DTSC. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Other On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB) entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Implementation of the preferred remedy was essentially completed in late 2007. The respondents are finalizing the Removal Action Summary report by addressing some minor site maintenance issues, deed restrictions and operating and maintenance plans for approval by KDHE. U. S. Steel and SSB continue to work with KDHE to address site maintenance issues. At December 31, 2009, an accrual of $121,000 remains available for these project contingencies. On January 23, 2006, Kansas Department of Health and Environment KDHE sent a letter to U. S. Steel requesting that U. S. Steel address a former zinc smelter site in Girard, Kansas. U. S. Steel completed a site investigation, and submitted a Corrective Action Study (CAS) necessary to address the impacted soils at this site. KDHE approved the CAS on November 17, 2009. In addition, a Consent Agreement and Final Order, through which the remediation will be conducted, remains to be negotiated with KDHE. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has an accrued liability of $1 million to complete the investigation and conduct the remedial measure as proposed in the CAS. In January of 2004, U. S. Steel received notice of a claim from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and notice of claims from citizens of a cap failure at the Dayton Landfill. U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil are the largest PRPs at the site and have agreed to equally share costs for investigating the site, making U. S. Steels share 33 1/3 percent. The Remedial Action Plan for the site was approved by TCEQ in June 2009. On December 10, 2009, pursuant to the Texas Solid Waste Disposal Act, The Cox Road Group (comprised of U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil) filed a contribution/cost of recovery action against apporximately 50 parties in Liberty County, Texas. Implementation of remedial measures is expected to be initiated in 2010. The accrued liability to complete U. S. Steels one third portion of the site investigations and implement the remedial measure was $1.8 million as of December 31, 2009. 48 Table of Contents Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2010, are as follows: Name Age Title Executive OfficerSince George F. Babcoke 53 Senior Vice President European Operations & President U. S. Steel Koice March 1, 2008 James D. Garraux 57 General Counsel & Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs February 1, 2007 John H. Goodish 61 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer December 31, 2001 Gretchen R. Haggerty 54 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer December 31, 2001 David H. Lohr 56 Senior Vice President Strategic Planning, Business Services & Administration June 1, 2008 John P. Surma 55 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer December 31, 2001 Susan M. Suver 50 Vice President Human Resources November 1, 2007 Gregory A. Zovko 48 Vice President & Controller April 1, 2009 All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel or our subsidiaries for more than the past five years, with the exception of Ms. Suver. Prior to joining U. S. Steel, Ms. Suver served as corporate vice president, Global Human Resources for Arrow Electronics, Inc. (Arrow), a $12 billion global provider of industrial and commercial electronic components and computer products. She joined Arrow in 2001 as vice president, Global Organizational Development. Prior to that, she served as vice president, Organization Effectiveness and Communication for Phelps Dodge Corporation. Messrs. Garraux, Goodish and Surma and Ms. Haggerty will hold office until the annual election of executive officers by the Board of Directors following the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or until his or her earlier resignation, retirement or removal. Messrs. Babcoke, Lohr and Zovko and Ms. Suver will hold office until their resignation, retirement or removal. 49 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 61. As of January 31, 2010, there were 20,322 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. Dividends are declared by U. S. Steel on a quarterly basis. For the first quarter of 2009, the dividend declared per share of U. S. Steel common stock was $.30 and for the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, the dividend declared was $.05. For the first and second quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.25 and for the third and fourth quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.30. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds. Shareholder Return Performance The graph below compares the yearly change in cumulative total shareholder return of our common stock with the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poors (S&Ps) 500 Stock Index and the S&P Steel Index. The S&P Steel Index is comprised of U. S. Steel, Nucor Corporation, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated and Worthington Industries, Inc. 50 Table of Contents Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities U. S. Steel had no sales of unregistered securities during the period covered by this report and we have suspended purchases under our Common Stock Repurchase Program. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2009 2008 2007(a) 2006 2005 Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(b) $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 $ 15,715 $ 14,039 (Loss) income from operations(c) (1,684 ) 3,069 1,213 1,785 1,439 Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(c) (1,401 ) 2,112 879 1,374 910 Per Common Share Data: Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(d) basic (10.42 ) 18.04 7.44 11.88 7.87 diluted (10.42 ) 17.96 7.40 11.18 7.00 Dividends per share declared and paid 0.45 1.10 0.80 0.60 0.38 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 15,422 $ 16,087 $ 15,632 $ 10,586 $ 9,822 Capitalization: Debt(e) $ 3,364 $ 3,145 $ 3,257 $ 1,025 $ 1,612 United States Steel Corporation stockholders equity 4,676 4,895 5,531 4,365 3,324 Total capitalization $ 8,040 $ 8,040 $ 8,788 $ 5,390 $ 4,936 (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. (b) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from higher average realized prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe (including favorable foreign currency effects) and higher shipments of flat rolled and tubular products in the U.S. The increase in net sales from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from higher shipments and increased average realized prices prices in all three reportable segments. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2006 to 2007 mainly resulted from higher raw materials and outage related costs in the U.S. and Europe, increased maintenance costs in the U.S., lower average realized prices for tubular products in the U.S. and unfavorable inventory transition effects related to inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco. These were partially offset by higher prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe. The increase from 2005 to 2006 was mainly due to higher average realized prices in the U.S., higher shipments of flat rolled products in the U.S. and in Europe and lower raw materials costs in Europe. These were partially offset by higher raw materials costs in the U.S. (d) See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2009 and 2008 see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from new debt issued to fund the acquisitions of USSC and Lone Star. The decrease from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from the repurchase of most of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due August 1, 2008, and from the repayment and termination of a 195 million credit facility at USSK. 51 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the tenth largest steel producer in the world and the largest integrated steel producer headquartered in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions to produce a wide range of flat rolled and tubular steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil, gas and petrochemical industries. In addition to our facilities in the United States, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Canada through U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) and in Europe through U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), located in Serbia. U. S. Steels financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. While the operating results of our various businesses are affected by a number of business specific factors (see Item 1. Business Steel Industry Background and Competition), the primary drivers for U. S. Steel are general economic conditions in North America, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other benefits costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. Following several years of strong performance, the steel industry and U. S. Steel were quickly and severely impacted by the global recession starting in late 2008. In response to these economic conditions, our strategy has been to enhance our liquidity, maintain a solid balance sheet and position ourselves for success in the longer term. In late 2008 and early 2009, we idled all or portions of numerous steel making, finishing, raw materials and tubular operations in the U.S., Canada and Europe and operated our remaining facilities at reduced levels to match our customers lower demand requirements. We continue to monitor the impact of the economic situation on our customers and to adjust our operations to efficiently meet their requirements. Our raw steel capability utilization rate in 2009 was 48% for Flat rolled operations and 69% for USSE operations. With respect to financial matters, we reduced our quarterly dividend, completed successful offerings of senior convertible notes and common stock and renegotiated the provisions of existing financial covenants with lenders. We initiated substantial cost reduction activities at all locations, including reducing our non represented workforce through restructuring, attrition and early retirement programs. We agreed with the United Steel Workers (USW) to defer certain mandatory trust contributions, implemented a hiring freeze, eliminated merit pay salary increases, suspended the Company match on our 401(k) program, and reduced fees for Board of Directors and base salaries for all general managers and executives. We significantly reduced our capital expenditures for 2009 from the original plan of $740 million to $472 million by focusing largely on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. We voluntarily contributed $140 million to the main defined benefit plan as we still believe that this is appropriate to mitigate larger potential funding requirements in the future. We refinanced $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds extending their maturity dates from 2011 to maturity dates ranging from 2017 to 2030. We finished the year with total liquidity of $2.5 billion, an improvement of nearly $300 million from the average of the previous five year ends. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to earn a competitive return on capital employed by implementing our strategy to be a world leader in safety and environmental performance; to continue to increase our value added product mix; to further expand our global business platform; to maintain a strong capital structure, balance sheet and liquidity position; to continue to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to attract and retain a diverse and talented workforce. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which are impacting the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the level of unfunded pension and other benefits obligations; the degree of industry consolidation; the impact of production and consumption of steel in China and other developing countries; and the levels of steel imports into the markets we serve. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to employee benefits liabilities and assets held in trust relating to such liabilities; the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; goodwill and intangible assets; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations and potential litigation claims and settlements. Managements estimates are based on historical experience, current business and market conditions, and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. LIFO (last in, first out) is the predominant method of inventory costing for inventories in the United States and FIFO (first in, first out) is the predominant method used in Canada and Europe. The LIFO method of inventory costing was used for 49 percent and 39 percent of consolidated inventories at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Equity Method Investments Investments in entities over which U. S. Steel has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are carried at U. S. Steels share of net assets plus loans, advances and our share of earnings less distributions. Differences in the basis of the investment and the underlying net asset value of the investee, if any, are amortized into earnings over the remaining useful life of the associated assets. Income from investees includes U. S. Steels share of income from equity method investments, which is generally recorded a month in arrears, except for significant and unusual items which are recorded in the period of occurrence. Gains or losses from changes in ownership of unconsolidated investees are recognized in the period of change. Intercompany profits and losses on transactions with equity investees have been eliminated in consolidation subject to lower of cost or market inventory adjustments. U. S. Steel evaluates impairment of its equity method investments whenever circumstances indicate that a decline in value below carrying value is other than temporary. Under these circumstances, we would adjust the investment down to its estimated fair value, which then becomes its new carrying value. Pensions and Other Benefits The recording of net periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pensions and other benefits is based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the 53 Table of Contents assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steels investment strategy for its U.S. pension and other benefits plan assets provides for a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality bonds and selected smaller investments in private equities, investment trusts, timber and mineral interests. For its U.S. pension plans, U. S. Steel has a target allocation for plan assets of 60 percent equities with the balance primarily invested in corporate bonds and government backed bonds and Treasury bills. For the Other Benefit plans, the target allocation for plan assets is 65 percent equities. U. S. Steel also believes that returns on equities over the long term will be higher than returns from fixed income securities as actual historical returns from U. S. Steels trusts have shown. Returns on bonds tend to offset some of the shorter term volatility of stocks. Both equity and fixed income investments are made across a broad range of industries and companies to provide protection against the impact of volatility in any single industry as well as company specific developments. U. S. Steel is currently using an 8.00 percent assumed rate of return for purposes of the expected return on assets for the development of net periodic cost for the main defined benefit pension plan and Other Benefits. This rate was chosen by taking into account the intended asset mix and the historical premiums that fixed income and equity investments have yielded above government bonds. Actual returns since the inception of the plans have exceeded this 8.00 percent rate and while some recent annual returns have not, it is U. S. Steels expectation that future periods will return to this level. For USSC defined benefit pension plans, U. S. Steels investment strategy is similar to its strategy for U.S. plans, whereby the Company seeks a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality corporate and government bonds and selected smaller investments with a target allocation for plan assets of 65 percent equities. A 7.50 percent rate of return is being used for the development of net periodic costs in 2010 which is lower than the U.S. pension plan assumption as subcategories within the asset mix are from a more limited investment universe and, as a result, have a lower expected return. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate used to measure both domestic pension and other benefits obligations to 5.5 percent from 6.0 percent. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which we estimate the pension and other benefits liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting the domestic rates, we utilize several AAA and AA corporate bond indices as an indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. For USSC benefit plans, a discount rate was selected through a similar review process using Canadian bond rates and indices and at December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate to 6.0 percent from 6.5 percent for its Canadian based pension and other benefits. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Much of our costs for the domestic USW participants retiree health benefits (other than for most surviving spouses) in the Companys main domestic insurance plan are subject to a cost cap that was negotiated in 2003. As a result of the collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) (see Note 17 to the Financial Statements), our costs are subject to the full impact of escalation for the surviving spouse beneficiaries since their retiree premium contributions are now a flat fixed amount. Escalation applies to most other groups within the Companys insurance plans, but does not apply to most domestic non union retirees since their benefits are limited to flat dollar amounts. For measurement of its domestic retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 8.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2015 and remain at that level thereafter. For measurement of its Canadian retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 7.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2014 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, including multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $270 million in 2010 compared to $271 million in 2009. Pension cost for 2009 included $80 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Total other benefits costs in 2010 are expected to be approximately $150 million, compared to $191 million in 2009. Other benefit costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Excluding the 2009 settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the expected increase in total pension cost is primarily due to a lower market related value of plan assets primarily due to further recognition of the asset losses that were incurred in 2008. 54 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical  1/2 percentage point change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and other benefits calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) 1/2% (1/2%) Expected return on plan assets Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension cost for 2010 $ (52 ) $ 52 Discount rate Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension & other benefits costs for 2010 $ (22 ) $ 32 Pension & other benefits liabilities at December 31, 2009 $ (613 ) $ 658 Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental increase (decrease) in: Service and interest cost components for 2010 $ 8 $ (7 ) Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost over the fair value of acquired identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities assumed from businesses acquired. We have two reporting units that have a significant amount of goodwill. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007. These amounts reflect the benefits we expect the Flat rolled reporting unit to realize from expanding our flexibility in meeting our customers needs and running our Flat rolled facilities at higher operating rates to source our semi finished product needs. Our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition, reflecting the benefits we expect the reporting unit to realize from the expansion of our tubular operations. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. U. S. Steel completed its annual goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of 2009 and determined that there was no goodwill impairment for either reporting unit. Fair value was determined in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820 on fair value, which requires consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable. For the 2009 annual goodwill impairment test, U. S. Steel used fair values estimated under the income approach and the market approach. Although considered, U. S. Steel did not utilize the cost approach as relevant data was not available. The income approach is based upon projected future cash flows discounted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk associated with the future cash flows. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using probability weighted scenarios of future cash flow projections based on managements long range estimates of market conditions over a multiple year horizon. A three percent perpetual growth rate was used to arrive at an estimated future terminal value. A discount rate of 11 percent was used for both reporting units which was based upon the cost of capital of other comparable steel companies, which we view as the most likely market participants. The market approach is based upon an analysis of valuation metrics for companies comparable to our reporting units. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using an appropriate valuation multiple based on this analysis, estimated normalized earnings and an estimated control premium. 55 Table of Contents In order to validate the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units, a reconciliation of the aggregate fair values of all reporting units to market capitalization, using a reasonable control premium, was performed as of the valuation date. We further validated the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units using other valuation metrics that included data from historical U. S. Steel transactions as well as published analyst reports. As of December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively, but would still result in no goodwill impairment charge. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit under the income approach are determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions, including assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or assumed growth rates, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. U. S. Steel has determined that certain acquired intangible assets have indefinite useful lives. These assets are reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long lived assets U. S. Steel evaluates long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of those productive assets exceed their projected undiscounted cash flows. We evaluate the impairment of long lived assets at the asset group level. Our asset groupings are the same as our reporting units. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel determines that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of our deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of our net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. income taxes on undistributed foreign earnings because as of December 31, 2009, it remained managements intention to continue indefinitely to reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2009 amounted to approximately $2,901 million. If such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $870 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss for items that have been or may be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, court case, tax ruling or other authoritative tax position), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2009, the total accrual for environmental remediation was $203 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations. Due to uncertainties inherent in remediation projects, it is possible that total remediation costs for active matters may exceed the accrued liability by as much as 15 to 30 percent. Segments U. S. Steel has three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2008, the operating results of our iron ore operations, which were previously included in Other Businesses, are included in the Flat rolled segment. The iron ore operations are managed as part of our Flat rolled segment, which consumes almost all of our iron ore production. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this change. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels North American integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of slabs, rounds, strip mill plates, sheets and tin mill products , as well as all iron ore and coke production facilities in the United States and Canada. The steel rounds and a portion of the hot rolled sheets produced by Flat rolled are supplied to the Tubular segment. These operations primarily serve North American customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), construction, container, and appliance and electrical markets. Flat rolled has annual raw steel production capability of 24.3 million tons. Flat rolled had annual raw steel production capability of 20.2 million tons for the year ended December 31, 2007 as annual raw steel production capability includes U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Raw steel production was 11.7 million tons in 2009, 19.2 million tons in 2008 and 16.8 million tons in 2007. Raw steel production averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009, 79 percent of capability in 2008 and 83 percent of capability in 2007. The USSE segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and coke production facilities in Slovakia; U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and other facilities in Serbia; and equity investees located in Europe. USSE primarily serves customers in the European construction, service center, conversion, container, transportation (including automotive), appliance and electrical, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. USSE produces and sells slabs, sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill products and spiral welded pipe, as well as heating radiators and refractory ceramic materials. USSE has annual raw steel production capability of 7.4 million tons. USSEs raw steel production was 5.1 million tons in 2009, 6.4 million tons in 2008 and 6.8 million tons in 2007. USSEs raw steel production averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009, 86 percent of capability in 2008 and 92 percent of capability in 2007. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels tubular production facilities, primarily in the United States, and equity investees in the United States and Brazil. These operations produce and sell seamless and electric resistance welded (ERW) steel casing and tubing (commonly known as oil country tubular goods or OCTG), standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. Tubulars annual production capability is 2.8 million tons. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses include transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations and engineering consulting services. For further information, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents Net Sales (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Net Sales by Segment (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2009 2008 2007(b) Flat rolled(a) $ 6,814 $ 13,789 $ 9,986 USSE 2,944 5,487 4,667 Tubular 1,216 4,251 1,985 Total sales from reportable segments 10,974 23,527 16,638 Other Businesses(a) 74 227 235 Net sales $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 (a) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements. (b) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2009 versus Year Ended December 31, 2008 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 40 % 8 % 0 % 1 % 2 % 51 % USSE 20 % 20 % 1 % 3 % 2 % 46 % Tubular 63 % 5 % 1 % 0 % 4 % 71 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The decrease in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected decreased shipments (down 7.0 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $129 per net ton). The decrease in sales for USSE was primarily due to decreased shipments (down 1.2 million net tons) and lower average realized euro based transaction prices (down $295 per net ton including foreign currency translation effects). The decrease in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from decreased shipments (down 1.3 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $286 per net ton). 58 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 versus Year Ended December 31, 2007 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 19 % 19 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 38 % USSE 7 % 18 % 1 % 7 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 40 % 64 % 4 % 0 % 6 % 114 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The increase in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected higher average realized prices (up $138 per ton) and increased shipments, primarily due to the inclusion of USSC for all of 2008. The increase in sales for USSE was primarily due to higher average realized euro based transaction prices and currency translation effects, partially offset by reduced shipments. Including the currency translation effects, reported average realized prices increased $212 per ton from 2007. The increase in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from higher average realized prices (up $706 per ton) and increased shipments, partially due to the inclusion of the former Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) facilities for the entire year in 2008. Operating Expenses Profit based union payments Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Allocated to segment results $ $ 237 $ 119 Retiree benefit expenses 99 Total $ $ 237 $ 218 Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 did not include any costs for profit based payments to employees represented by the USW because the base threshold of operating income agreed to in the 2008 CBAs was not met. Results for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 include costs related to profit based payments. These costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Profit based payment amounts per the agreements with the USW are calculated as a percentage of consolidated income from operations (as defined in the agreements) and are paid as profit sharing to active USW represented employees (excluding employees of USSC) based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. Amounts in 2007 also include costs related to a trust that was to be used to assist retirees from National Steel with health care costs. Pension and other benefits costs Defined benefit and multiemployer pension plan costs totaled $271 million during 2009, $78 million during 2008 and $129 million in 2007. Pension costs during 2009 included $80 million for several voluntary early retirement programs (VERPs) and losses in connection with the sale of a majority of the operating assets of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E). Excluding these losses, the increase in expense from 2008 to 2009 mainly reflected the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Pension costs during 2007 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $20 million. Excluding these losses, the decrease in expense from 2007 to 2008 mainly reflected the improved funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $25 million during 2009, $35 million during 2008 and $26 million during 2007. Costs in 2009 included $13 million for VERP related benefits under these plans. Other benefits costs, which are included in income from operations, totaled $191 million in 2009, $149 million in 2008 and $136 million in 2007. Other benefits costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and 59 Table of Contents curtailment losses. Excluding these losses, the increase in 2009 was primarily due to impacts of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs partially offset by lower costs at USSC as a result of favorable claims experience. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of expenses related to USSC employees for the full year. For additional information on pensions and other benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Nonretirement postemployment benefits U. S. Steel incurred costs of and paid approximately $85 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 related to employee costs for supplemental unemployment benefits, salary continuance and continuation of health care benefits and life insurance coverage for employees associated with the temporary idling of certain facilities and reduced production at others. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $618 million in 2009, $625 million in 2008 and $589 million in 2007. Pension and other benefits costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $164 million in 2009, $47 million in 2008 and $86 million in 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses remained consistent from 2008 to 2009 but were impacted by an increase in pension and OPEB costs offset by a decrease in compensation expense. The increase in 2008 mainly resulted from increased expenses related to our 2007 acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and higher compensation expense, partially offset by lower pension expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization Depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses were $661 million in 2009, $605 million in 2008 and $506 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily related to the fact that effective January 1, 2009 we eliminated the use of the modified straight line method, which was previously used for certain steel producing assets in the United States. The increase in 2008 was primarily related to the full year impact of assets acquired in the business acquisitions during 2007. The modification factors previously applied to straight line calculations ranged from a minimum of 85 percent at a production level below 81 percent of capability, to a maximum of 105 percent for a 100 percent production level. No modification was made at the 95 percent production level. Applying modification factors decreased depreciation expense, when compared to a straight line calculation, by $58 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 60 Table of Contents (Loss) Income from Operations(a) Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 2007 Flat rolled(b) $ (1,438 ) $ 1,390 $ 382 USSE (208 ) 491 687 Tubular 57 1,207 356 Total (loss) income from reportable segments (1,589 ) 3,088 1,425 Other Businesses(b) (2 ) 77 84 Segment (loss) income from operations (1,591 ) 3,165 1,509 Retiree benefit expenses (134 ) (22 ) (143 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Federal excise tax refund 34 Litigation reserve 45 (45 ) Net (loss) gain on the sale of assets 97 Environmental remediation charge (49 ) (23 ) Workforce reduction charges (86 ) (57 ) Deferred gain recognition 150 Labor agreement signing payments (105 ) Asset impairment charge (28 ) Flat rolled inventory transition effects (23 ) (58 ) Tubular inventory transition effects (38 ) Total (loss) income from operations $ (1,684 ) $ 3,069 $ 1,213 (a) See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280. (b) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. 61 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled (Includes USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007) The Flat rolled segment generated a loss of $1,438 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $1,390 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted mainly from unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $2,450 million), lower income from reduced steel substrate sales to our Tubular segment (approximately $400 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities (approximately $360 million), facility restart costs (approximately $70 million) and lower income from equity investments (approximately $190 million). These were partially offset by lower raw material and natural gas costs (approximately $370 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $300 million). The increase in Flat rolleds segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 resulted mainly from higher commercial effects (approximately $2,780 million) and increased income from semi finished steel sales to Tubular (approximately $470 million). These were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials (approximately $1,560 million) and energy (approximately $280 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $170 million) and higher accruals for profit based payments (approximately $150 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. 62 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE The USSE segment generated a loss of $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $491 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $1,300 million) and reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $135 million) partially offset by lower raw material costs (approximately $620 million), reduced facility repair and maintenance costs (approximately $60 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $50 million). The decrease in USSEs segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to higher raw materials and energy costs (approximately $780 million), net unfavorable currency effects (approximately $50 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $40 million) and outage related costs (approximately $30 million), partially offset by higher commercial effects (approximately $740 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. Capability utilization in 2008 was adversely affected by the reline of the No. 1 blast furnace in Slovakia and by reduced operations late in the year to match declining customer demand. 63 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular (Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007) The decrease in Tubulars segment income in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to unfavorable commercial effects (approximately $1,080 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities and facilities operating at reduced production levels (approximately $35 million and $60 million, respectively) and write downs of inventory (approximately $35 million). These were partially offset by lower costs of substrate steel purchases from the Flat rolled segment (approximately $40 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $55 million). The increase in Tubulars segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 mainly resulted from higher commercial effects (approximately $1,580), due in part to the inclusion of results for facilities acquired from Lone Star for the entire year. This was partially offset by increased costs for semi finished steel (approximately $610 million) from Flat rolled and outside sources. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses generated a loss of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $77 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted from the impacts of the global recession and the sale of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E) in the first quarter of 2009. Results for Other Businesses decreased by $7 million from 2007 to 2008. Items not allocated to segments: Retiree benefit expenses increased significantly from 2008 to 2009 mainly due to the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Retiree benefit expenses decreased significantly from 2007 to 2008 mainly due to lower retiree pension expense (See Operating Expenses Pension and other benefits costs) and lower profit based expense related to certain former National Steel employees (See Operating Expenses Profit based union payments). 64 Table of Contents During 2009, U. S. Steel received a federal excise tax refund of $34 million associated with the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales from 1990 to 1992. A litigation reserve of $45 million involving a rate escalation provision in a U. S. Steel power supply contract was established in 2008 as a result of a court ruling and was subsequently reversed in 2009 as that decision was overturned. See Part II. Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings. We recorded a $97 million pre tax net gain on sale of assets in 2009 as a result of the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. The net gain included a pension curtailment loss of approximately $10 million. We recorded a $49 million environmental remediation charge in 2009 in connection with the definition of an expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works. We recorded a $23 million environmental remediation charge in 2008 as the scope of work became defined for an environmental project at a former operating location. Workforce reduction charges of $86 million in 2009 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a VERP offered in the first quarter of 2009 to certain non represented employees in the United States. Workforce reduction charges of $57 million in 2007 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a voluntary early retirement plan offered to certain employees at USSK. We recognized a noncash deferred gain of $150 million in 2008 in connection with the termination of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements. The 2008 CBAs provided for labor agreement signing payments of up to $6,000 per employee which resulted in a charge of $105 million in 2008. An asset impairment charge of $28 million in 2008 resulted from our decision to exit the drawn over mandrel (DOM) tubular products business. The charge was taken principally to write down to fair value equipment associated with the DOM business. Inventory transition effects of $23 million in 2008 and $96 million in 2007 reflected the charges for conforming certain inventories acquired from Lone Star to our unified business model, and the impact of selling inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco, which had been recorded at fair value. Net Interest and Other Financial Costs Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Interest and other financial costs $ 179 $ 179 $ 162 (a) Interest income (10 ) (14 ) (79 )(a) Foreign currency gains (8 ) (103 ) (4 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 26 Net interest and other financial costs $ 161 $ 62 $ 105 (a) The year ended December 31, 2007 includes $27 million of interest expense and offsetting interest income related to the obligation to provide benefits for National Steel retirees that was settled in the fourth quarter of 2007. While the obligation was outstanding, U. S. Steel invested the amount due in short term investments and interest earned on those investments was also payable. The increase in net interest and other financial costs from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to lower foreign currency gains. The decrease in net interest and other financial costs from 2007 to 2008 was mainly due to higher foreign currency gains and the nonrecurrence of the $26 million charge in 2007 related to the early redemption of certain debt, partially offset by increased interest expense resulting from debt incurred to fund the acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and lower interest income. 65 Table of Contents The foreign currency gains include remeasurement effects on a U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan (the Intercompany Loan) from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary related to the 2007 acquisition of USSC that had an outstanding balance of $892 million at December 31, 2009, partially offset by losses on euro U.S. dollar derivatives activity, which we use to mitigate our foreign currency exposure. Volatility in the foreign currency markets could have significant implications for U. S. Steel going forward as a result of the foreign currency accounting remeasurement effects resulting from the Intercompany Loan and foreign currency gains and losses on derivatives activity. For additional information on U. S. Steels foreign currency exchange activity see Note 15 to the Financial Statements and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. Income Taxes The income tax benefit in 2009 was $439 million, compared to provisions of $853 million in 2008 and $218 million in 2007. The tax benefit in 2009 is primarily related to the net loss for the period. The effective tax benefit rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 is lower than the statutory rate because losses in Canada and Serbia, which are jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, do not generate a tax benefit for accounting purposes. The increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily reflected higher income and a higher effective tax rate as a result of a lower percentage of pre tax earnings generated by our European operations. The net domestic deferred tax asset was $731 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $802 million at December 31, 2008. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset from 2009 to 2008 was primarily a result of the remeasurement of the pension and other benefits plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements). At December 31, 2009, the foreign deferred tax assets recorded were $103 million, net of established valuation allowances of $575 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the euro, the Canadian dollar and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian deferred tax assets due to the absence of positive evidence at USSC to support the realizability of the assets. A full valuation allowance is provided for Serbian deferred tax assets because current projected investment tax credits, which must be used before net operating losses and credit carryforwards, are more than sufficient to offset future tax liabilities. As USSC and USSS generate sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $514 million for Canadian deferred tax assets and $46 million for Serbian deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009, would be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. For further information on income taxes see Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Net income Net loss in 2009 was $1,401 million compared to income of $2,112 million in 2008 and $879 million in 2007. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2009 decreased by $717 million from year end 2008 primarily due to lower inventories and lower receivables partially offset by higher cash balances (see Cash Flows). The decrease in inventories primarily resulted from lower quantities of higher cost raw materials. Raw material inventory quantities decreased as U. S. Steel maintained lower operating rates throughout 2009 and reduced raw material purchases as a cash conservation measure. Receivables decreased mainly due to lower sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, due primarily to lower average realized prices. These decreases were partially offset by the recognition of an income tax receivable representing a portion of the federal income tax refund that we expect to receive in 2010 as a result of carrying back our expected 2009 losses to prior years. Goodwill of $1,725 million increased by $116 million from year end 2008 mainly as goodwill attributable to the acqusition of Stelco were reported at higher amounts due to foreign currency translation effects. 66 Table of Contents Assets held for sale at December 31, 2009 consist of certain assets at Hamilton Works, primarily property, plant and equipment, and decreased from December 31, 2008 as a result of the sale of the majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. Total deferred income tax benefits at year end 2009 remained consistent with the balance at year end 2008. Deferred income tax benefits were primarily impacted by an increase in foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards offset by an increase in the valuation allowance, since a full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian and Serbian deferred tax assets, and a decrease in the deferred income tax benefit related to employee benefits. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Current liabilities at year end 2009 decreased by $304 million from year end 2009 due mainly to lower payroll and benefits payable resulting from the absence of accruals for profit based payments and lower accrued taxes resulting from reduced net income in 2009 compared to 2008. Several balance sheet accounts changed as a result of an improvement in the net funded status of our pension and other employee benefits plans. Employee benefits decreased by $624 million and the accumulated other comprehensive loss decreased by $541 billion. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The decrease in the accumulated other comprehensive loss was also due to foreign currency translation effects as a result of the weakening U.S. dollar versus the Euro and the Canadian dollar. The increase in long term debt from December 31, 2008 was mainly due to our public offering in May 2009 of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014, partially offset by the repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. See Liquidity. Common stock and Additional paid in capital increased by $27 million and $666 million, respectively, compared to year end 2008 primarily as a result of our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May 2009. See Liquidity. Cash Flows Net cash used in operating activities was $61 million in 2009 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1,658 million in 2008 and $1,732 million in 2007. This change was primarily related to a net loss of approximately $696 million after adjustments for noncash items in 2009 compared to income of approximately $2.6 billion after adjustments for noncash items in 2008. The favorable working capital change in 2009 of approximately $1.3 billion mainly reflected lower inventory and receivables levels, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items in 2008 compared to 2007 was more than offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency translation effects due mainly to the strengthening of the U. S. dollar and unfavorable working capital effects (excluding the 2007 acquisitions). The unfavorable working capital change in 2008 mainly reflected higher inventory levels and the repurchase of receivables, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities for 2009 was increased and net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 and 2007 was reduced by employee benefits payments as shown in the following table. 67 Table of Contents Employee Benefits Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ 140 $ 140 $ 140 Required contributions to other defined benefit pension plans 79 73 23 Other employee benefits payments not funded by trusts 285 236 213 Contributions to trusts for retiree health care and life insurance(a) 12 228 498 Payments to a multiemployer pension plan 58 33 30 Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts 84 29 17 Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ 658 $ 739 $ 921 (a) Includes $143 million in 2008 and $468 million in 2007 for a company contribution to U. S. Steels trust for retiree health care and life insurance fulfilling the Companys obligation under an agreement with the USW regarding benefits for certain former National Steel employees. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and healthcare by the end of 2011. Capital expenditures variable interest entities was $147 million in 2009 and $161 million in 2008. This primarily reflects spending by Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) for a non recovery coke plant to supply Granite City Works. This spending is consolidated in our financial results but is funded by Gateway and, therefore, is completely offset by amounts included in distributions from noncontrolling interests, which is included in cash flow from financing activities. 68 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2009 of $472 million consisted largely of non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long term strategic importance, as we substantially reduced our capital spending from the original plan of $740 million to conserve liquidity. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $338 million in 2009included spending development of an enterprise resourceplanning (ERP) system, non discretionary environmentalprojects, maintenance on the No. 14 blast furnace at GaryWorks and cokemaking projects at Granite City Works andthe Clairton Plant, including the construction of acogeneration facility at Granite City Works. USSEexpenditures of $113 million included spending at USSK forthe maintenance of the No.3 blast furnace, a coke oven gasdesulphurization project and spending for development of theERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $465 million in 2008 included spending for modernization of our cokemaking facilities, including expenditures for construction of a cogeneration facility at Granite City Works, development of an ERP system and replacement of open pit mining equipment at our iron ore operations USSE expenditures of $210 million included spending at USSK for the reline of the No.1 blast furnace, for replacement of electrical power transformers and to upgrade a continuous caster, and spending for development of the ERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $418 million in 2007 included spending for development of an ERP system, blast furnace stove replacements at Granite City Works and Great Lakes Works, coke oven thru wall repairs primarily at our Clairton Plant and open pit mining equipment and an environmental project at our iron ore operations. USSE expenditures of $215 million included spending at USSK for an air emission reduction project and a new automotive quality galvanizing line, spending at USSS for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace, and spending for development of an ERP system. Construction of the new galvanizing line was completed in February 2007. 69 Table of Contents U. S. Steels contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2009, totaled $152 million. Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to total approximately $530 million and remain focused largely on environmental and other infrastructure projects. We continue to evaluate investments of long term strategic importance, including projects to invest in production of coke and coke substitutes, given that some of our existing coke batteries are approaching the end of their useful lives, to reduce coke requirements in Serbia through blast furnace coal injection, to enhance our Tubular operations in order to more efficiently serve customers increased focus on shale natural gas resources and to allow us to increase our participation in the automotive market as vehicle emission and safety requirements become more stringent. In light of the significant capital commitment that such projects would entail over the next several years, we may seek to secure some long term funding for such projects and general corporate purposes prior to committing to such projects. The preceding statement concerning expected 2010 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, ability to secure long term funding, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, receipt of necessary permits and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Z Line Company reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of pickle lines reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. reflected $2,050 million paid at closing, net of cash acquired of $71 million; plus $14 million of transaction costs to acquire all of the outstanding shares. Acquisition of Stelco Inc. reflected $1,237 million paid to acquire all of the outstanding stock and stock equivalents, $785 million paid to retire substantially all of the outstanding debt and $34 million paid to Stelcos main pension plans, net of cash acquired of $32 million; plus $13 million of transaction costs. Disposal of assets in 2009 reflected pre tax cash proceeds of approximately $300 million from the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E and $36 million from the sale of emissions allowances at U. S. Steel Koice (USSK). Restricted cash in 2009 primarily reflected collateral required on previously unsecured obligations. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2008 primarily reflected amounts drawn against a USSK 200 million three year revolving credit facility, the proceeds of which were used to reduce the Intercompany Loan (see Liquidity), as well as borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Repayments of revolving credit facilities in 2008 reflected repayment of borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Common stock issued in 2009 resulted from our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2009 resulted primarily from our public offering in May of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014. Also in 2009, we issued $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds (ERBs), maturing from 2017 to 2030. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the issuance of $300 million principal amount of 5.65% Senior Notes due 2013, $450 million principal amount of 70 Table of Contents 6.05% Senior Notes due 2017, $350 million principal amount of 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 and $500 million principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018; and our entrance into two $500 million term loans and a $400 million term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2009 primarily reflected repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. Also in 2009, we completed the refunding of $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds. See Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2008 primarily reflected payments on our term loans, including the early retirement of $300 million of our three year term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the early redemption of $378 million of 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010, the early redemption of $49 million of 10% Senior Quarterly Income Debt Securities due 2031 and the repayment of a $400 million term loan. Common stock repurchased in 2008 and 2007 totaled 2.0 million shares and 1.2 million shares, respectively. Our share repurchase program was originally authorized in July 2005. In 2006, our Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2009, 4.4 million shares remained authorized for repurchase. In late 2008, we suspended repurchases under this program as part of our reaction to the difficult global economic environment. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock 4th Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 1st Qtr. 2009 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.30 2008 $ 0.30 $ 0.30 $ 0.25 $ 0.25 2007 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 Liquidity The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2009: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,218 Amount available under $750 Million Credit Facility(b) 638 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 93 Amounts available under USSS credit facilities 55 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,504 (b) As of December 31, 2009, there were no amounts drawn on the Amended Credit Agreement and inventory levels supported the full $750 million of the facility. Since availability was greater than $112.5 million, compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio was not applicable. However, based on the most recent four quarters, as of December 31, 2009, we would not meet the fixed charge coverage ratio if we were to borrow more than $637.5 million. Therefore, we reduced the availability reflected by $112.5 million. 71 Table of Contents (a) Excludes $20 million, $20 million and $27 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, of cash primarily related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership (Partnership) because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. On October 31, 2008, we acquired the equity interests in the Partnership that we did not wholly own. Excludes $1 million of cash at December 31, 2008 related to our variable interest entities. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment and restatement of its $750 million Credit Agreement dated May 11, 2007 (Amended Credit Agreement) with a group of lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (Agent). U. S. Steel simultaneously entered into a security agreement with the Agent (Security Agreement) providing for a security interest in the majority of its domestic inventory. The Amended Credit Agreement established a borrowing base formula, which limits the amounts U. S. Steel can borrow to a certain percent of the value of certain domestic inventory less specified reserves, and eliminates the previous financial covenants that consisted of interest and leverage coverage ratios. The Amended Credit Agreement contains a new financial covenant requiring U. S. Steel to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (defined as consolidated EBITDA less certain capital expenditures and cash income tax expense to certain fixed charges) of at least 1.10 to 1.00 for the most recent four consecutive quarters when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million. The Amended Credit Agreement includes revised pricing and other customary terms and conditions, and will expire on May 11, 2012. For further information regarding the Amended Credit Agreement and Security Agreement, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) that provides up to $500 million of liquidity and letters of credit depending upon the number of eligible domestic receivables generated by U. S. Steel. The commitments under the RPA expire in September 2010. Domestic trade accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. If U. S. Steel decides to access this facility, USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables and if any of them are unable to fund such purchases, two banks are committed to do so. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into agreements which amended the RPA. These agreements increase certain reserve factors and percentages, provide for a termination event if there is a change of control of U. S. Steel, amend the definition of Eligible Receivables, change certain performance triggers and make conforming and clarifying changes. 72 Table of Contents The RPA may be terminated on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, failure by U. S. Steel to make payments under our material debt obligations and any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. For further information regarding the agreements, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. On May 4, 2009, U. S. Steel completed a public offering of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014 and 27,140,000 shares of its Common Stock. U. S. Steel received net proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion and used $655 million to repay all amounts outstanding under its three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Convertible Notes was $863 million. On December 11, 2009, USSK entered into a 10 million (approximately $14 million at December 31, 2009) unsecured revolving credit facility as the sole obligor. The facility expires January 2011. The facility bears interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contains other customary terms and conditions. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the facility. At December 31, 2009, USSK had no borrowings against its 40 million, 20 million and 10 million unsecured credit facilities (which approximated $101 million) but had $8 million of customs and other guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $93 million. At December 31, 2009, USSK had 200 million (approximately $288 million) fully drawn against a 200 million unsecured credit facility. USSK is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The 10 million facility expires January 2011, the 200 million facility expires July 2011, the 40 million facility expires October 2012 and the 20 million facility expires December 2012. During 2009, USSS amended its secured credit facility agreements to limit availability to the value of USSS inventory of finished and semi finished goods. These facilities include an 800 million Serbian dinar overdraft facility and a 40 million revolving credit facility (together approximately $69 million). USSS is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The facilities expire August 2010. At December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings against these facilities and availability was 39 million (approximately $55 million). On May 21, 2007, U. S. Steel issued a total of $1.1 billion of senior notes consisting of $350 million at 6.65 percent due 2037, $450 million at 6.05 percent due 2017, and $300 million at 5.65 percent due 2013, (collectively, the Senior Notes). The Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Notes was $1.1 billion. On December 10, 2007, U. S. Steel issued $500 million of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018 (the 2018 Senior Notes). The 2018 Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the 2018 Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. As of December 31, 2009, the principal amount outstanding under the 2018 Senior Notes was $500 million. We use surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. The use of some forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $150 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2009. Increases in these commitments which use collateral are reflected in restricted cash on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 73 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, in the event of a change in control of U. S. Steel, debt obligations totaling $2,462 million, which includes the Senior Notes and the Senior Convertible Notes, may be declared immediately due and payable. In such event, U. S. Steel may also be required to either repurchase the leased Fairfield slab caster for $45 million or provide a letter of credit to secure the remaining obligation. In the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, obligations of $354 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases, as well as $26 million relating to an operating lease, may be declared immediately due and payable. The guarantees of the indebtedness of unconsolidated entities of U. S. Steel totaled $11 million at December 31, 2009. In the event that any default related to the guaranteed indebtedness occurs, U. S. Steel has access to its interest in the assets of the investee to reduce its potential losses under the guarantee. U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $140 million to the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in both 2009 and 2008. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions of similar amounts in 2010 or later periods in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory contributions in later years. The contributions actually required will be greatly influenced by the level of voluntary contributions, the performance of pension fund assets in the financial markets, the elective use or disavowal of existing credit balances in future periods and various other economic factors and actuarial assumptions that may come to influence the level of the funded position in future years. The 2008 Collective Bargaining Agreements (see Note 17) require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions during the contract period to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance. This contribution is in addition to an annual $10 million required contribution to the same trust that continues from an earlier agreement. Under this earlier agreement, a $20 million contribution is required if the Company does not contribute at least $75 million to its main pension plan in the prior year. During 2008, the Company made $85 million in contributions to the trust under these agreements, as well as a $143 million contribution to cover some of the health and life benefits for certain retirees of National Steel Corporation. During the first quarter of 2009, the Company made a $10 million contribution to this trust. In April 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the annual $75 million mandatory contributions due in 2009 and the $10 million contribution due in January 2010. Further, the USW has agreed to permit us to use all or part of the $75 million contribution made in 2008 to pay current retiree health care and life insurance claims, subject to a make up contribution in 2013. Through December 31, 2009, none of the 2008 contribution funds have been used by the Company. In conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco, now USSC (see Note 4), U. S. Steel assumed the pension plan funding agreement (the Pension Agreement) that Stelco had entered into with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Province) on March 31, 2006 that covers USSCs four main pension plans. The Pension Agreement requires minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and additional annual contributions for benefit improvements, which currently are limited to the union retiree indexing provisions. The defined annual contributions will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. In its acquisition of Stelco on October 31, 2007, U. S. Steel assumed liability for a note issued to the Province of Ontario (Province Note) (see Note 4 to the Financial Statements). The face amount of the Province Note is C$150 million (approximately $142 million at December 31, 2009) and is payable on December 31, 2015. The Province Note is unsecured and is subject to a 75 percent discount if the solvency deficiencies in the four main USSC pension plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements) are eliminated on or before the maturity date. 74 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2009, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Long term debt (including interest) and capital leases(a) $ 4,954 $ 202 $ 943 $ 1,414 $ 2,395 Operating leases(b) $ 173 40 59 34 40 Unconditional purchase obligations(c) $ 11,540 4,442 2,627 1,305 3,166 Capital commitments(d) $ 152 114 38 Environmental commitments(d) $ 203 17 186 (e) Steelworkers Pension Trust $ 286 (f) 54 113 119 (f) (f) Pensions(g) $ 451 83 153 145 70 Other benefits(h) $ 1,940 (i) 415 880 645 (i) Unrecognized tax positions $ 106 106 (e) Total contractual obligations $ 19,805 $ 5,367 $ 4,813 $ 3,662 $ 5,963 (a) See Note 16 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Amounts exclude subleases. (c) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. Additionally, includes coke and steam purchase commitments related to a coke supply agreement with Gateway Energy & Coke Company LLC (See Note 18). (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Timing of potential cash flows is not reasonably determinable. (f) While It is difficult to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, which expire in 2012, projected amounts shown through 2014 assume that the current $2.65 contribution rate per hour will apply. (g) Amounts shown represent projected cash requirements for USSC pension plans, most of which relates to a funding scheme for USSCs four main plans, whereby under an agreement with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Pension Agreement), USSC is responsible for minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and smaller annual contributions for benefit improvements related to prior cost of living adjustments. The Pension Agreement will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015 when minimum funding requirements under the Pension Benefits Act will resume. U.S. dollar equivalents of contributions are based on foreign exchange rates as of December 31, 2009 and shown projected through 2015. (h) Excludes profit based payments that may be required through September 1, 2012, pursuant to the provisions of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments that may be required. (i) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for retiree medical and retiree life benefit obligations which require the use of corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2010 through 2014 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and include mandatory contributions to the USW VEBA trust of $75 million in 2010 and $85 million in both 2011 and 2012. Projected amounts do not reflect optional drawdowns from the USW VEBA trust if U. S. Steel decides to utilize certain options available under its agreements with the USW. Amounts to be used from the VEBA trust will be determined in 2010 and later years. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the asset trust mix, medical escalation rates and company decisions or restrictions related to our trusts for retiree healthcare and life insurance that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Due to these factors, amounts shown above could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. 75 Table of Contents Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table except for the contributions required for USSCs defined benefit pension plans. (See footnote (g) of the above table). U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and other benefits during 2010 and 2011. U. S. Steel may make voluntary contributions in 2010 or later periods to the main defined benefit pension plan in the United States in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory required contributions in later years. In addition to the USSC amounts included in the above table, U. S. Steel expects to make cash payments of $15 million to other pension plans not funded by trusts. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2009, and the effect such commitments could have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 122 $ 109 $ $ $ 13 (c) Surety bonds(a) 18 18 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 33 33 (c) Marathon Oil Corporation(a)(b) 26 26 Total commercial commitments $ 199 $ 109 $ 26 $ $ 64 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) Reflects the amount of U. S. Steels operating lease obligations that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. Our major cash requirements in 2010 are expected to be for capital expenditures, employee benefits and working capital requirements. We finished 2009 with $1.2 billion of available cash. As business conditions recover, our working capital requirements will likely increase and we may need to draw upon our credit facilities for necessary cash. Funding under the RPA and the Amended Credit Agreement is based on a pool of eligible domestic receivables and domestic inventory, respectively, both of which have declined as a result of lower orders and our efforts to reduce working capital. A sudden increase in orders could require a significant amount of investment in working capital. Should we experience a significant increase in orders or an unexpected need for funds that cannot be met with available cash and our liquidity facilities, we may need to access the capital markets. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy our obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Our opinion regarding liquidity is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than recent levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Debt and Senior Convertible Notes Ratings The ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt by Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) are BB and Ba3, respectively. On January 27, 2010, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) lowered its ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt from BBB to BB+ and revised its outlook to stable. Any further downgrades could reduce our access to the capital markets and increase our financing costs. 76 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, a portion of the labor force used by the investees is provided by U. S. Steel, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. In September 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utilities at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a cogeneration facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. U. S. Steel is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay annual capacity and operating and maintenance fees. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, which was effective January 1, 2004. During the initial 5 year period, U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that were annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Other guarantees, indemnifications and take or pay arrangements are discussed in Notes 18 and 28 to the Financial Statements. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations and similar obligations in Europe and Canada, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent that these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that our major North American, and many European, integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that our relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills, some foreign steel producers (particularly in developing economies such as China) and producers of materials which compete with steel, all of which may not be required to incur equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to our prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Many of our competitors do not have similar historical liabilities. Our U. S. facilities are subject to the U.S. environmental standards, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. 77 Table of Contents USSC is subject to the environmental laws of Canada, which are comparable to environmental standards in the United States. Environmental regulation in Canada is an area of shared responsibility between the federal government and the provincial governments, which in turn delegate certain matters to municipal governments. Federal environmental statutes include the federal Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 and the Fisheries Act. Various provincial statutes regulate environmental matters such as the release and remediation of hazardous substances; waste storage, treatment and disposal; and air emissions. As in the United States, Canadian environmental laws (federal, provincial and local) are undergoing revision and becoming more stringent. The Canadian and Ontario governments have identified a sediment deposit in Hamilton Harbor near USSCs Hamilton Works for remediation, which the regulatory agencies estimated several years ago will require expenditures of approximately C$90 million (approximately $85 million). The national and provincial governments have each allocated C$30 million (approximately $28 million) for this project and they have stated that they will be looking for local sources, including industry, to fund the remaining one third. USSC has committed C$7 million (approximately $7 million) as its contribution. Additional contributions may be sought. USSK is subject to the environmental laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). A related law of the EU commonly known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, Regulation 1907/2006) requires the registration of certain substances that are produced in the EU or imported into the EU. USSK pre registered various substances during the six month pre registration period that ended November 30, 2008, both on its own behalf and on behalf of U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries that may be shipping products into the EU. USSK is compliant with REACH and intends to register its substances by the applicable deadlines to remain in compliance and be able to continue its businesses without material change. USSS is subject to the environmental laws of Serbia. Under the terms of the acquisition in 2003, USSS is responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study in June 2004, which was submitted to the Government of Serbia. During 2008 and 2009, USSS spent approximately $50 million to reduce air particulate emissions and undertake other environmental projects pursuant to an agreement with the Serbian government. Many nations, including all where we operate, have or are considering the regulation of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Regulation of CO2 emissions is relevant to the steel industry and U. S. Steel. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States House of Representatives has passed a bill, a bill has been introduced to the Senate and the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified CO2 as a harmful gas. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 North America: Capital $ 28 $ 44 $ 21 Compliance Operating & maintenance 294 409 278 Remediation(a) 19 27 28 Total North America $ 341 $ 480 $ 327 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 55 $ 51 Compliance Operating & maintenance 16 17 18 Remediation(a) 7 18 7 Total USSE $ 90 $ 90 $ 76 Total U. S. Steel $ 431 $ 570 $ 403 (a) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. 78 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 20 percent of total capital expenditures in 2009, 11 percent in 2008 and 10 percent in 2007. Environmental compliance expenditures represented three percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2009 and two percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2008 and 2007. Remediation spending during 2007 through 2009 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at our Fairless Plant and Lorain Tubular Operations. RCRA corrective action programs have been initiated at Gary Works, Fairfield Works and USS POSCO Industries. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. The following table shows activity with respect to environmental remediation liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 410. Environmental Remediation Liabilities (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Beginning Balance $ 162 $ 142 Plus: Additions 57 37 Less: Payments (16 ) (17 ) Ending Balance $ 203 $ 162 New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2010. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $168 million in 2010, $89 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2010 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2011, including $26 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at USSC assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic 79 Table of Contents downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active asbestoscases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional details concerning asbestos litigation see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel will vigorously defend these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Outlook for First Quarter 2010 We expect to report an overall operating loss in first quarter 2010 as gradually improving business conditions begin to be reflected in our operating results. We continue to experience improved order rates from several of our end markets. Automotive, service center, converter and appliance customer order rates in North America and Europe are at or near their highest levels in the last twelve months, while in other markets, such as construction, demand remains soft, but due to the low levels of inventory and the anticipated seasonal increases in activity at the end of the first quarter, our construction order book remains stable for both North America and Europe. A gradually strengthening economy should result in improvements in real demand, while apparent demand will likely be positively influenced by the restocking of the manufacturing supply chain, which we believe is under way. Relatively low levels of flat rolled product imports, if continued, are also expected to support improved order rates. Our Tubular operations are also continuing to experience favorable demand trends, most notably in alloy product at our welded operations in East Texas. At the same time, spot market prices are increasing across all of our segments in response to increased order rates and global raw material cost pressures. We continue to believe that the U.S. and global economies are in the early stages of a gradual recovery. While we are becoming more optimistic, primarily due to improvements we are starting to see in the manufacturing sector, we remain cautious in our outlook for end user demand. 80 Table of Contents Flat rolled results for first quarter 2010 are expected to improve from fourth quarter 2009. The benefits of increases in average realized prices and shipments, efficiencies from increased operating rates and reduced facility repair and maintenance costs are expected to be partially offset by the absence of approximately $55 million of favorable effects from LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Average realized prices are expected to increase from fourth quarter 2009 as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. Increases in our index based contract prices would be realized later as higher published market price assessments enter the index calculations for future periods. We are currently making steel at six of our seven North American steelmaking locations, with the exception being our Lake Erie Works, which represents approximately ten percent of our annual Flat rolled raw steel capability. We expect to complete maintenance work on our largest blast furnace, the #14 Blast Furnace at Gary Works, late in the first quarter and have all available capacity in operation at these six locations before the end of the quarter. Overall, raw steel capability utilization rates are expected to increase from the fourth quarter of 2009. First quarter 2010 results for USSE are expected to be comparable to fourth quarter 2009 as the benefits of increased shipments and operating efficiencies are expected to be offset by higher raw material costs. Euro based transaction prices are expected to be slightly higher than the fourth quarter as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to be lower due to foreign currency translation effects. We completed maintenance work on the #3 Blast Furnace at USSK in early February and we are currently operating all five of USSEs blast furnaces. We expect our Tubular operations to remain profitable in the first quarter. However, results are expected to decrease from the fourth quarter as the benefits of increased shipments are expected to be offset by increased costs as we continue to increase production to meet increased order rates, as well as the absence of $10 million of favorable fourth quarter items related to favorable effects of LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Seamless and welded tubular product prices are expected to improve throughout the quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to decrease as compared to the fourth quarter due to a higher proportion of welded tubular product shipments. We expect increased operating rates at all of our pipe facilities in the first quarter, most notably our welded pipe facility in East Texas. These expected increases should also benefit our Flat rolled operations that supply substrate requirements to our welded pipe facilities. Accounting Standards In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (FAS 167). FAS 167 is a revision to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, and amends the consolidation guidance for variable interest entities. Additionally, FAS 167 will require additional disclosures about involvement with variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure due to that involvement. FAS 167 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 167 will result in the deconsolidation of certain of our current variable interest entities, including, Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC due to the addition of the power criteria in paragraph 14 of FAS 167. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 810, Consolidations Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities, to incorporate FAS 167. In June 2009, the FASB issued FAS No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets (FAS 166). FAS 166 is a revision to FAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, and will require more information about transfer of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and enhanced disclosures when companies have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. Additionally, FAS 166 eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity. FAS 166 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 166 will result in any Receivables Purchase Agreement transactions being accounted for as secured borrowing transactions as of January 1, 2010. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, to incorporate FAS 166. See note 19 for further details of our accounts receivable facility. 81 Table of Contents Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage our market and exchange rate risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain commodity or currency transactions. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the transaction is settled. Once the transaction is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. For further information regarding derivative instruments see Notes 1 and 15 to the Financial Statements. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, through USSE and USSC, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the euro, the Serbian dinar and the Canadian dollar. U. S. Steel historically has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. U. S. Steel has not elected to use hedge accounting for these contracts. Foreign currency derivative instruments have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in net interest and other financial costs. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sales contracts for U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $185 million and $363 million, respectively). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2009 euro forward rates would result in a $19 million charge to income. The fair value of our derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs, which are defined as significant other observable inputs. The inputs used include quotes from counterparties that are corroborated with market sources. Future foreign currency impacts will depend upon changes in currencies, the extent to which we engage in derivatives transactions and the balance of the Intercompany Loan. The amount and timing of such borrowings or repayments on the Intercompany Loan will depend upon profits and cash flows of our international operations, future international investments and financing activities, all of which will be impacted by market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices and foreign exchange rates. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of our business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and zinc, tin and other nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for our products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel has made forward physical purchases to manage exposure to price risk related to the purchases of natural gas and certain non ferrous metals used in the production process. Historically, the forward physical purchase contracts for natural gas and nonferrous metals have qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 815. However, 82 Table of Contents due to reduced natural gas consumption in 2009, we net settled some of our excess natural gas purchase contracts for certain facilities. Therefore, the remaining contracts for natural gas at those facilities no longer met the exemption criteria and were therefore subject to mark to market accounting. As of December 31, 2009, there are no longer natural gas purchase contracts subject to mark to market accounting. Fixed price forward physical purchase contracts entered into for 2010 to partially manage our exposure to natural gas price risk qualify for the normal purchases normal sales exemption. The fair value of our natural gas derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs. The inputs used include forward prices derived from the New York Mercantile Exchange. A 10 percent decrease in natural gas prices for open derivative instruments as of December 31, 2009, would not result in a material charge to income. U. S. Steel held commodity contracts for natural gas that qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption with a total notional value of approximately $44 million at December 31, 2009. Total commodity contracts for natural gas represent approximately 12 percent of our expected North American natural gas requirements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of our non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent increase/decrease in year end 2009 and 2008 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase inFair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 26 $ 0 $ 23 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 4,004 $ 172 $ 2,650 $ 106 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008. (d) For additional information see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on the yield on our public debt where available or current borrowing rates available for financings with similar terms and maturities. For additional information see Note 16 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of our debt portfolio would unfavorably affect our results and cash flows only to the extent that we elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt included 200 million ($288 million) of borrowing under a floating rate revolving credit facility, the fair value of which is not affected by interest rate declines. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 83 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Solid Waste U. S. Steel continues to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. Corrective action under RCRA related to past waste 26 Table of Contents disposal activities is discussed below under Remediation. For additional information regarding significant enforcement actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the former Duluth Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred and it is possible that additional sites will be identified that require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had approximately 24,000 employees in North America and approximately 19,000 in Europe. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) that expire in September 2012. The 2008 CBAs resulted in wage increases ranging from $0.65 to $1.00 per hour as of the effective date. Each subsequent September 1 thereafter during the contract term, employees will receive a four percent wage increase. The 2008 CBAs also require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance during the contract period. In early 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the 2009 contribution until 2012. The 2008 CBAs also provide for pension and other benefit enhancements for both current employees and retirees (see Notes 17 and 20 to the Financial Statements). A small number of workers at these facilities, as well as workers at our transportation operations are covered by agreements with the USW or other unions that have varying expiration dates. At USSC the collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Lake Erie Works has expired and a successor agreement has not been reached. The collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Hamilton Works expires in July 2010. All of the agreements in North America contain no strike clauses. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in March 2012. Represented employees at USSS are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in December 2012. Wage increases have been agreed to for all years for both USSE agreements. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. We post our annual report on Form 10 K, our quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, our proxy statement and our interactive data files to our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also post all press releases and earnings releases to our web site. 27 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles, our Code of Ethical Business Conduct and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation & Organization Committee and the Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 2998). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site or the documents referred to in the immediately preceeding paragraph into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income from operations by reportable segment and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 3 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary (Unaudited) on pages F 63 and F 64. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Current Global Recession All segments of our business have been impacted by the global recession and such impacts have created certain new risks and have also affected the other risks set forth below. U. S. Steel and its end product markets continue to be impacted by the global recession. For full year 2009, U. S. Steel reported a net loss of $1,401 million, or $10.42 per diluted share. Raw steel production in our North American Flat rolled segment averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 79 percent and 83 percent of cabability in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and our European USSE segment averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 86 percent and 92 percent of capability in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our Tubular segment shipped 657 thousand tons in 2009 as compared to 1.95 million tons in 2008. Despite some signs of economic recovery, we expect to report an overall operating loss for the first quarter of 2010. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which experienced substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels and this has led to a substantial decrease in oil and gas drilling activity, which has resulted in lower customer demand for the products of our Tubular segment. U. S. Steels operating levels will remain at depressed levels until our customers demand increases. In addition to reduced demand in our end product markets, we believe that some of our customers are experiencing difficulty in obtaining credit or maintaining their ability to qualify for trade credit insurance, resulting in a further reduction in purchases and an increase in our credit risk exposure. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. In addition, the expiration of governmental stimulus programs may have a negative impact on the levels of customer demand. In response to the global recession, we announced that we had substantially reduced our planned capital expenditures for 2009 to conserve liquidity. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long 28 Table of Contents term strategic importance, as we focused on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Unless the current economic situation continues to improve, we may have to delay investments of long term strategic importance. It could also become more expensive to complete these deferred investments at a later date. Moreover, delaying these long term strategic investments could have a negative impact on our cost structure and market position. U. S. Steel is incurring and will continue to incur facility carrying costs when production capacity is temporarily idled and increased costs as we resume production at idled facilities. During 2009, U. S. Steel temporarily idled significant production facilities in all three of our segments in response to economic conditions and customer demand. We continue to incur certain facility carrying costs which could not be eliminated even though the facilities were idled, resulting in higher unit production costs for all three segments. For example, during 2009 in our North American Flat rolled and Tubular segments, we incurred approximately $735 million and $80 million of idled facility costs, respectively. Furthermore, we transferred raw materials to operating locations, and delayed discretionary repair and maintenance and other expenditures while facilities were temporarily idled to minimize costs and preserve liquidity during the idling period. As we restart facilities, we are incurring increased costs to replenish raw material inventories, prepare the previously idled facilities for operation, perform the required repair and maintenance, complete capital projects and prepare employees to safely return to work and resume production responsibilities. U. S. Steel may need to substantially increase working capital when market conditions and order levels improve. As our business deteriorated, we reduced working capital by $1.3 billion in 2009. When market conditions and order levels improve we may have to increase our working capital substantially, as it will take several months for new orders to be translated into cash receipts. In general, availability under our 2007 five year $750 million revolving credit facility, which was amended and restated in 2009, (Amended Credit Agreement) is limited to a monthly borrowing base of certain eligible domestic inventory and availability under our Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) is limited to eligible receivables. We may not have sufficient eligible inventory and receivables to borrow the amounts we need. U. S. Steel may face increased risks of customer and supplier defaults. There is an increased risk of insolvency and other credit related issues of our customers and suppliers, including their need to increase working capital as their businesses improve. We believe some of our customers and suppliers may not have sufficient credit available to them, which could delay payments from customers, result in increased customer defaults and cause our suppliers to delay filling, or to be unable to fill, our needs. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity investees are also being affected by the current global recession. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity affiliates are also engaged in the production of steelmaking raw materials and finishing of flat rolled and tubular products. As such they face many of the same issues we do. Since these entities are smaller than U. S. Steel, they may have fewer resources available to them to respond to the current global recession. Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is highly cyclical, and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow, especially during periods of economic weakness. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in regional markets. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess global supply, which has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. 29 Table of Contents Rapidly growing supply in China and other developing economies may grow faster than real demand in those economies, which may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years, steel consumption in China and other developing economies has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by rapidly increasing steel production capability in those countries and published reports state that further capacity increases are likely. Steel production, especially in China, has expanded rapidly and appears to be well in excess of Chinas home market demand. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any excess Chinese supply could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if this excess and subsidized production is exported to other markets. Since the Chinese steel industry is largely government owned, it has not been as adversely impacted by the current global recession, and it can make production and sales decisions for non market reasons. Increased imports of steel products into North America and Europe could negatively affect steel prices and demand levels and reduce our profitability. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 22 percent of the domestic steel market in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 22 percent in 2007. Foreign competitors may have lower labor costs, and some are owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Imports of tubular products to the United States increased significantly beginning in 2008. Oil country tubular goods (OCTG) imports accounted for a large share of the growth, as they have more than doubled over 2007 levels. Imports of OCTG from China registered the most dramatic increase as they grew from 900 thousand tons in 2007 to nearly 2.3 million tons in 2008. The U.S. market experienced a surge in tubular imports in the second half of 2008 that resulted in record OCTG inventories by the end of the year, which affected demand in 2009 and is continuing to affect demand in 2010. Chinese imports of seamless standard line and pressure pipe increased by more than 290 percent in the three months after the filing of antidumping and counterveiling duty petitions in September 2009, as compared to the three months prior to the filing. Imports of flat rolled steel to Canada accounted for an estimated 35 percent of the Canadian market for flat rolled steel products in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 27 percent in 2007. Total imports of flat rolled carbon steel products to the EU27 (the 27 countries currently comprising the European Union (EU)) were 15 percent of the EU market in 2009, 19 percent in 2008 and 17 percent in 2007. Increases in future levels of imported steel to North America and Europe could reduce future market prices and demand levels for steel products produced in those markets. Imports into the United States, Canada and the EU have often violated the international trade laws of these jurisdictions. While in some cases U. S. Steel and others have been successful in obtaining relief under these laws, in other circumstances relief has not been received. When received, such relief is generally subject to automatic or discretionary recision or reduction. There can be no assurance that any such relief will be obtained or continued in the future or that such relief as obtained will be adequate. Limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in obtaining sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner due to delays or defaults by suppliers, shortages or transportation problems (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or disruption of rail lines, waterways or natural gas transmission lines), resulting in production curtailments. We do not produce enough coke to meet our global requirements and our coke production capability is likely to decline over the next several years given that some of our existing coke batteries in the United States are approaching the end of their useful lives. As a result, we may be further exposed to risks concerning pricing and availability of coke from third parties. USSE is dependent upon availability of natural gas produced in Russia and transported through Ukraine. USSE experienced natural gas supply curtailments during Russias suspension of natural gas shipments to Europe in January 2009. Resulting steel production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins, and any future curtailments and escalated costs may reduce profit margins. 30 Table of Contents Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Steel producers in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the EU, Canada and Japan are generally comparable to U.S. standards, other nations, particularly China, have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Greenhouse gas policies could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create carbon dioxide (CO2). This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States has passed a bill in the House of Representatives and a bill has been introduced in the Senate. For a discussion of these, see PART I Business Environmental Matters. We cannot predict the final requirements that may be adopted in the United States and Canada, or the form of future actions that may be taken by the EU; however, such limitations could entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources, which could have a negative effect on results of operations and cash flows. Since mini mill production does not involve the same chemical reactions as integrated production, mini mills may have a competitive advantage. Also, since China and many other developing nations have not instituted greenhouse gas regulations, and since past international agreements such as the Kyoto Protocol provided exemptions and lesser standards for developing nations, we may also be at a competitive disadvantage with certain foreign steel producers. Many of our customers in the United States, Canada and Europe may experience similar impacts, which could result in decreased demand for our products. Risk Factors Concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Our retiree health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, and our pension plan costs in North America are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans covering most of our North American employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 129,000 current employees, retirees and beneficiaries are participating in the plans to receive pension and or medical benefits. At December 31, 2009, on an accounting basis, U. S. Steels retiree medical and life insurance plans were underfunded $2.9 billion and our pension plans were underfunded by $1.7 billion. Most of our employee benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Minimum contributions to domestic qualified pension plans are controlled under ERISA and other government regulations. Minimum contributions to U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) pension plans are governed by an agreement entered into by Stelco Inc. (Stelco) and the Province of Ontario that U. S. Steel assumed in conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco. This agreement requires defined annual contributions until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. Substantial cash contributions may be required to fund these benefit plans. U. S. Steel contributes to a multiemployer plan in the United States covering pensions for USW represented workers formerly employed by National Steel and workers hired after May 2003. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of this plan, which may have a negative effect on our cash flows. The collective 31 Table of Contents bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) increased our required contributions to this plan from $1.80 to $2.65 per hour. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of this plan. Total costs for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $420 million in 2010, a decrease of $40 million from 2009, while cash contributions for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $570 million in 2010, exclusive of any voluntary contributions we might choose to make. The turmoil in financial markets during 2008 has led to significant declines in the value of equity investments that are held by the trusts under our pension plans and the trust to pay for retiree health care and life insurance benefits. While some of these losses were recovered in 2009, the 2008 losses have contributed to the underfunded position at December 31, 2009. We may be required or may choose to make substantial contributions to these plans. Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and pension plans, and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Benefit obligations under our plans are not tied to operating rates; therefore, our costs are not expected to decline as a result of the global recession or any other future economic downturns. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our results of operations and cash flows. U. S. Steel is involved in numerous remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to unrelated parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. For example, we recorded a charge of $49 million in 2009 in connection with the expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works bringing the total liability for this site to $66 million as of December 31, 2009. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Many U.S. competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Competitors that have obtained relief under bankruptcy laws may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors Applicable to U. S. Steel Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to equipment failures at our facilities or those of our key suppliers. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Production at USSE was curtailed in January 2009 due to the suspension of natural gas deliveries to Europe from Russia transported through Ukraine and we remain vulnerable to this risk. Availability of raw materials and delivery of products to customers could be affected by logistical disruptions (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or unavailability of rail lines or of locks on the Great Lakes or other bodies of water). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by volatility in prices for raw materials, energy, and steel. Approximately 60 percent of U. S. Steels Flat rolled segment sales in the United States are based on sales contracts with volume commitments and durations of at least one quarter, while lesser percentages of Tubular and USSE segment sales are made pursuant to such contacts. These contracts generally have a fixed price or a price 32 Table of Contents that will fluctuate with changes in a defined index and do not always have firm volume commitments. During periods of rapid escalation of raw materials, energy and other costs such as was experienced in 2008, U. S. Steel may not be able to recover these cost increases from customers with existing fixed price agreements. Conversely, some purchase contracts require annual commitments and in periods of rapid decline, such as 2009, U. S. Steel may be faced with having agreed to purchase raw materials and energy at prices that are above the then current market price or in greater volumes than required. If steel prices decline, our profit margins on market based indexed contracts and spot business will be reduced. Declines in the production levels of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which reported substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels, leading to a reduction in oil and gas exploration and development, which in turn has resulted in lower customer demand for our Tubular segment. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. The terms of our indebtedness contain provisions that may limit our flexibility. The Amended Credit Agreement is now secured by a lien on a majority of our domestic inventory and certain of our accounts receivable and includes a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant that applies when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than $112.5 million. Because the Amended Credit Agreement was undrawn throughout 2009, this covenant was not applicable, but based on the four quarters ended December 31, 2009, we would not have met this covenant. The value or levels of inventory may decrease or we may not be able to meet this covenant in the future, and either or both of these situations would limit our ability to borrow under the Amended Credit Agreement. We also amended our $500 million RPA, which among other things increased pricing, reserve factors and percentages; changed the definition of Eligible Receivables, which resulted in an increase in the amount of our receivables ineligible for purchase; and added a change of control provision. Reductions in accounts receivable would limit our ability to sell receivables. In general, availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is limited to a monthly borrowing base for certain eligible domestic inventory. Further inventory reductions could limit availability to less than the potential $750 million. If availability under the Amended Credit Agreement falls below the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million, we would also be subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. This may be a particular problem when market conditions and order levels improve and U. S. Steel needs the liquidity to rebuild working capital. We have granted the lenders under the Amended Credit Agreement a secured position in our most liquid assets, which may be a detriment to other creditors. The Amended Credit Agreement, our Senior Convertible Notes issued in 2009 and our $1.6 billion of Senior Notes issued in 2007 also contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks. Additionally, the repayment of amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and repurchase of the Senior Convertible Notes and Senior Notes is required upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. The Amended Credit Agreement, the Senior Convertible Notes and the RPA have provisions that certain defaults under a material debt obligation could cause a default under the Amended Credit Agreement or the Senior Convertible Notes or termination of the RPA. These terms may affect our liquidity, our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. All three major ratings agencies have downgraded the ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt in the last year. This has caused increases in borrowing costs under our credit facilities. We have been required to and may be forced to provide additional collateral or financial assurance for environmental closure and other presently unsecured obligations. These and any future downgrades in our credit ratings may make raising capital more difficult, may increase the cost and affect the terms of future borrowings, may affect the terms under which we purchase goods and services and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 33 Table of Contents Change in control clauses in our financial and labor agreements grant the other parties to those agreements rights to accelerate obligations and to terminate or extend our labor agreements. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, Amended Credit Agreement, Senior Convertible Notes and various other contracts and leases, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately repurchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. Additionally, the 2008 CBAs give the USW the right to either terminate or extend the collective bargaining agreements for an additional four years. A change of control is generally defined to include any of the following: (a) the acquisition by a person or group of at least 35 percent of our common stock, (b) a merger in which holders of our common stock own less than a majority of the equity in the resulting entity, or (c) replacement of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors by persons who were not nominated by our current directors. Our operations expose us to uncertainties and risks in the countries in which we operate, which could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our U.S. operations are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the United States, which if changed could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, increased regulation, limitations on exports of energy and raw materials, and trade remedies. Actions taken by the U.S. government could affect our results of operations and cash flow. For example, certain health care reform proposals could increase the cost of our health insurance plans for active employees and retirees and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. USSK, located in Slovakia, USSS, located in Serbia, and USSC, located in Canada, constitute 39 percent of our global raw steel production capability. All of them are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the countries in which they are located, and USSK is additionally subject to economic conditions and political factors associated with the EU and the euro currency. Changes in any of these economic conditions or political factors could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, government instability, civil unrest, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. Any future foreign acquisitions could expose us to similar risks. We are subject to significant foreign currency risks, which could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. Our foreign operations accounted for approximately 30 percent of our net sales in 2009. The financial condition and results of operations of USSK, USSS and USSC are reported in various foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. The appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. In addition, the acquisition of USSC was funded from the United States, as well as through the reinvestment of undistributed foreign earnings from USSE, creating intercompany monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities involved, which can have a non cash impact on income when they are remeasured at the end of each quarter. An $892 million U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary was the primary exposure at December 31, 2009. Any future foreign acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Our business requires substantial expenditures for debt service, obligations, capital investment, operating leases and maintenance that we may be unable to fund. With $3,364 million of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2009, we have significant debt service requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2009, total capital expenditures were $3.3 billion. At December 31, 2009, our contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $152 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $173 million under operating leases. 34 Table of Contents In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, steelmaking and steel finishing facilities. As of December 31, 2009, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $173 million, operating lease obligations of approximately $26 million that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, and unconditional purchase obligations, including take or pay arrangements, totalling approximately $11.5 billion. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient, to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. The limitations under our Amended Credit Agreement and RPA, described above, may limit our availability to draw upon these facilities. We intend indefinitely to reinvest undistributed foreign earnings outside the United States; however, if we need to repatriate funds in the future to satisfy our liquidity needs, the tax consequences would reduce income and cash flow. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. Our insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insured retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by the 2008 CBAs, which expire in September 2012. These agreements contain provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USW, grant the USW a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the 2008 CBAs, require us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities and require mandatory pre funding of a trust for retiree health care and life insurance. These agreements also restrict our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further require that the ratio of non USW employees to USW employees at our domestic facilities not exceed one to five. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USW, some foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. We are at risk of labor stoppages. The collective bargaining agreement covering the Lake Erie Works expired in July 2009 and there has been a work stoppage since that time. The collective bargaining agreement at the Hamilton Works expires in July 2010, and we may not enter into a successor agreement prior to that time. There are risks associated with past acquisitions, as well as any acquisitions we may make in the future. Our acquisitions of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) and Stelco created goodwill on our balance sheet which totaled $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, and which exposes us to the risk of future impairment charges. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007 and our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined based on consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or compound annual growth rate, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. The assumptions used will have a large impact on the conclusions reached in future tests. As of 35 Table of Contents December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively. The Lone Star acquisition increased our tubular production capacity by more than 50 percent and the Stelco acquisition increased our North American steelmaking capability by 25 percent, thereby increasing our exposure to cyclical downturns in historically cyclical industries such as oil and gas, service center, conversion, automotive, construction and appliance. The success of any future acquisitions will depend substantially on the accuracy of our analysis concerning such businesses and our ability to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, to finance such acquisitions and to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Our acquisitions in 2007 involved purchase prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our acquisitions in 2003. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations and countries. Antitrust and similar laws in foreign jurisdictions may prevent us from completing acquisitions. There are risks associated with existing and potential tax law and accounting requirements. In accordance with ASC Topic 740, we have not recognized a tax benefit for pre tax losses in jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance for accounting purposes. As a result, the pre tax losses associated with USSS and USSC do not provide any tax benefit for accounting purposes. Significant changes in the mix of pre tax results among the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material impact on our effective tax rate. President Obamas administration has proposed significant changes to U.S. tax law. Some of the proposed changes, such as the repeal of the last in first out (LIFO) inventory cost method, could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow if they are enacted. We may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow in a particular period. Our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. For information regarding our current significant legal proceedings, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. We may suffer employment losses, which could negatively affect our future performance. Approximately 570 of U. S. Steels North American based non represented employees retired in 2009 as part of a voluntary early retirement program and a significant number of those remaining are or will be eligible for retirement over the next several years. 36 Table of Contents Over the last few years we had intensified our recruitment, training and retention efforts so that we may continue to optimally staff our operations, but we instituted a freeze on hiring in early 2009 in response to the global economic recession. If we are unable to hire sufficient qualified replacements for those leaving, our future performance may be adversely impacted. With respect to our represented employees, we may be adversely impacted by the loss of employees who retired or obtained other employment during the time they were laid off or subject to a work stoppage such as currently exists at Lake Erie Works. The cost reduction actions taken in 2009 increased the number of personnel and organization changes and may increase the risk of internal control failures. We may experience difficulties implementing our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. We are currently implementing an ERP system to help us operate more efficiently. This is a complex project, which is expected to be implemented in several phases over the next several years. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP program without experiencing difficulties. In addition, the expected benefits of implementing the ERP system may not be realized or the costs of implementation may outweigh the realized benefits. We extended the implementation schedule in early 2009 to reduce near term costs. This action will delay the realization of benefits from this project and may add to final project costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following tables list U. S. Steels main properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Slabs; Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Plant Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Slabs; Sheets; Coke Lake Erie Works Nanticoke, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke Hamilton Works Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke; Bars Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Slabs; Rounds; Sheets; Seamless Tubular USS POSCO Industries(a) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin mill PRO TEC Coating Company(a) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(a) Dearborn, Michigan Galvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(a) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(a) Jackson, Canton and Taylor, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(a) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(a) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(a) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Baycoat Limited Partnership(a) Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Steel processing D.C. Chrome Limited(a) Stony Creek, Ontario, Canada Roll processing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Seamless Tubular Texas Operations Lone Star, Texas Welded Tubular Bellville Operations Bellville, Texas Welded Tubular Wheeling Machine Products Pine Bluff, Arkansas and Hughes Springs and Houston, Texas Tubular couplings Tubular Processing Services Houston, Texas Tubular processing Tubular Threading and Inspection Services Houston, Texas Tubular threading, inspection and storage services Fintube Technologies, Inc. Tulsa, Oklahoma and Monterrey, Mexico Specialty Welded Tubular United Spiral Pipe, LLC(a) Pittsburg, California Spiral Welded Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Hibbing Taconite Company(a) Hibbing, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Tilden Mining Company(a) Ishpeming, Michigan Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas Transportation services (railroad and barge operations) (a) Equity investee 38 Table of Contents Other Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Koice Koice, Slovakia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Tubular; Coke; Radiators;Refractories U. S. Steel Serbia Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Limestone Apolo Tubulars S.A.(a) Lorena, Sao Paulo, Brazil Welded Tubular (a) Equity investee U. S. Steel and its predecessors (including Lone Star) have owned their properties for many years with no material adverse claims asserted. In the case of Great Lakes Works, Granite City Works, the Midwest Plant and Keetac iron ore operations acquired from National Steel in 2003; the Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia operations acquired by U. S. Steel in 2003; and the Lake Erie Works and Hamilton Works of U. S. Steel Canada acquired in 2007; U. S. Steel or its subsidiaries are the beneficiaries of bankruptcy laws and orders providing that properties are held free and clear of past liabilities. In addition, U. S. Steel or its predecessors obtained title insurance, local counsel opinions or similar protections when the major properties were initially acquired. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease. The final lease payment is due in December 2012 and the lease term expires in June 2013, subject to additional extensions. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. At the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has a supply agreement for various utility services with a company which owns a cogeneration facility located on U. S. Steel property. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. General Litigation In March 2008, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed a previous decision of the Indiana Utilitites Regulatory Commission involving a rate escalation provision in U. S. Steels electric power supply contract with Northern Indiana Public Service Company and a reserve of $45 million related to prior year effects was established in the first quarter of 2008. In June 2009, the Indiana Supreme Court overruled the Court of Appeals, and we reversed the reserve related to this litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel is vigorously defending these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. 39 Table of Contents On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. Asbestos Litigation As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active cases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. At December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 450 active cases involving approximately 3,050 plaintiffs. During 2009, settlements and dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 200 claims and U. S. Steel paid approximately $7 million in settlements. New filings added approximately 190 claims. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. Most of the claims filed in 2009, 2008 and 2007 involve individual or small groups of claimants. Historically, these claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); (2) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel; and (3) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of former operations of U. S. Steel. In general, the only insurance available to U. S. Steel with respect to asbestos claims is excess casualty insurance, which has multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has received minimal payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 210 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or our products or premises; however, with the decline in mass plaintiff cases the incidence of claimants actually alleging a claim against U. S. Steel is increasing. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or our products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing our potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any 40 Table of Contents claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where we believe litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. The following table shows activity with respect to asbestos litigation: Year ended December 31, OpeningNumber ofClaims ClaimsDismissed,Settled andResolved New Claims Closing Numberof Claims Amounts Paid toResolve Claims(in millions) 2007 3,700 1,230 530 3,000 $ 9 2008 3,000 400 450 3,050 $ 13 2009 3,050 200 190 3,040 $ 7 The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. The vast majority of pending claims against us allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. In most cases, the claimant also was exposed to asbestos in non U. S. Steel settings; the relative periods of exposure between U. S. Steel and non U. S. Steel settings vary with each claimant; and the strength or weakness of the causal link between U. S. Steel exposure and any injury vary widely. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, although the resolution of such matters could significantly impact results of operations for a particular quarter. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has declined; (2) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (3) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2009, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the 41 Table of Contents ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of, environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 31 CERCLA sites where liability is not resolved. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs will be between $1 million and $5 million for 3 of these sites, will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site for 8 of these sites, and will be under $100,000 per site for 9 of these sites. At 2 other sites, management estimates U. S. Steels share in the future cleanup costs to be $32 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. One site is known as the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pennsylvania. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation, which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel has completed the remedial design for this site and it is being reviewed by PADEP. The other site is the former Duluth Works, which was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River Interlake Duluth Tar site on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel has prepared a conceptual habitat enhancement plan (HEP) that includes measures to address contaminated sediments in the St. Louis River Estuary. MPCA (on behalf of EPA) has completed its second five year review for the site. As a result, additional data collection will be required to address data gaps identified in the five year review and corrective measures will be required to address the recently discovered areas of contamination on the upland property. Study, investigation and oversight costs along with implementation of corrective measures on the upland property and implementation of the HEP are currently estimated at $26 million. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 45 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 12 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 18 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 8 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million per site. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $5 million per site at 4 sites and in excess of $10 million per site at 1 sites. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining three sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by the EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. As of December 31, 2009, project costs have amounted to $60 million. U. S. Steel completed additional dredging in 2007, and submitted a Dredge Completion Report to EPA in May 2008. Although further dredging is not expected, $1.0 million is accrued for possible additional work that 42 Table of Contents may be required to complete the project and obtain EPA approval. The Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) which received dredged materials from the Grand Calumet River could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to an Administrative Order on Consent (1998) for corrective action. CAMU maintenance and wastewater treatment costs are anticipated to be an additional $872,000 through December 2011. In 1998, U. S. Steel also entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel, following EPA approval of the Dredge Completion Report, will pay the public trustees $1.0 million for ecological monitoring costs. In addition, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $835,000. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects based on the estimated remaining costs was $3.7 million at December 31, 2009. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites: D5, along with an adjacent solid waste disposal unit, Terminal Treatment Plant (TTP) Area; T2; and D2 combined with a portion of the Refuse Area, where a solid waste disposal unit overlaps with the hazardous waste disposal unit. The sites are located on plant property. U. S. Steel has submitted a closure plan to the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) for D2 and the known tar areas of the Refuse Area. U. S. Steel has proposed that the remainder of the Refuse Area be addressed as a Solid Waste Management Unit (SWMU) under corrective action. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a revised closure plan for T2 and separate closure plans for D5 and the TTP Area. IDEM approved the closure plans for D5 and T2 on October 15, 2009 and December 1, 2009 respectively. Implementation of both plans is expected to begin in 2010. The related accrued liability for estimated costs to close each of the hazardous waste sites and perform groundwater monitoring prior to closure is $5.8 million for D5 and TTP, $3.1 million for T2 and $10.9 million for D2 including a portion of the Refuse Area, as of December 31, 2009. On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for SWMUs throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI), a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) and Corrective Measure Implementation at Gary Works. Reports of field investigation findings for Phase I work plans have been submitted to EPA. Four self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had spent approximately $31.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval for a perimeter groundwater monitoring plan and is developing a proposal for a corrective measure to address impacted sediments in the West Grand Calumet Lagoon. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a sampling and analysis plan for the Solid Waste Management Areas east of the Vessel Slip Turning Basin, and a portion of the sediments behind the East Breakwall. U. S. Steel has begun operation of a full scale groundwater treatment system approved by EPA as a Self Implementing Stabilization Measure to address benzene impacted groundwater east of the vessel slip, and continues to operate a seasonal groundwater treatment system near the coke plant. The costs for the above mentioned activities are estimated to be $15.1 million. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval to implement corrective measures necessary to address soil contamination at Gary Works. U. S. Steel estimates the minimum cost of the corrective measures for soil contamination to be approximately $3.5 million. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $6.1 million. Until the remaining Phase I work and Phase II field investigations are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary for Corrective Action projects at Gary Works. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects was $24.7 million as of December 31, 2009, based on the estimated remaining costs. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by IDEM, acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court and thereafter became effective April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel has paid our entire share of the assessment costs and the restoration costs to the public trustees. On November 26, 2007, IDEM issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) alleging three pushing violations and one door violation on the No. 2 Battery that were to have occurred on July 11, 2007. On December 20, 2007, IDEM made a verbal penalty demand of $123,000 to resolve these alleged violations. U. S. Steel provided written responses to the NOVs. Negotiations regarding these NOVs are ongoing. 43 Table of Contents On October 3, 2007, November 26, 2007, March 2, 2008 and March 18, 2008, IDEM issued NOVs alleging opacity limitation violations from the coke plant and Blast Furnaces Nos. 4 and 8. To date, no penalty demand has been made by IDEM regarding these NOVs. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating resolution of these NOVs with IDEM. On July 3, 2008, EPA Region V issued a Notice of Violation/Finding of Violation (NOV/FOV) alleging violations resulting from a multi media inspection conducted in May 2007 and subsequent information collection requests pursuant to Section 114 of the Clean Air Act. These alleged violations include those currently being prosecuted by IDEM that are identified above. Other alleged violations include the reline of No. 4 Blast Furnace in 1990 without a New Source Review/Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit, and opacity limit excursions from hot iron transfer cars, slag skimming, slag pits, and the blast furnace casting house. The NOV/FOV also alleges violations relating to hydrochloric acid pickling, blast furnace relief valves and blast furnace flares. While a penalty demand is expected, EPA Region V has not yet made such a demand. Since issuing the NOV/FOV, EPA Region V has issued additional Section 114 information requests to Gary Works. U. S. Steel has responded to the requests and is currently negotiating resolution of the NOV/FOV and other request issues with EPA Region V and IDEM. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice On February 18, 2009, U. S. Steel received a letter from IDEM alleging that Gary Works was culpable for an ambient air quality exceedance for PM10 at the IITRI Monitoring Site. U. S. Steel responded to the letter on March 13, 2009. U. S. Steel met with IDEM on April 28, 2009 to resolve the issue. If Gary Works is determined to be culpable, U. S. Steel may be required to install and maintain two additional on site PM10 monitoring stations per the December 2006 Air Agreed Order. U. S. Steel continues to discuss the matter with IDEM. On April 13, 2009, Gary Works received a Notice of Violation from EPA Region 5 for alleged violations for New Source Review for reline of No. 13/14 during 2004 2005. U. S. Steel continues to meet with IDEM and EPA to negotiate resolution of the NOV. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. On August 20, 2009. Gary Works received an NOV and proposed Order alleging that Gary Works violated its NOx Trading Budget Allocations in 2006 ozone season. IDEM orginally proposed a penalty of $87,500. Because Gary Works corrected the error from its own allocations and no excess emissions occurred as a result of the NOx accounting error, IDEM agreed to reduce the penalty to $35,000. U. S. Steel verbally agreed to the reduced penalty and is currently drafting an Agreed Order with IDEM. Mon Valley Works On March 17, 2008, U. S. Steel entered a Consent Order and Agreement (COA) with the Allegheny County Health Department (ACHD) to resolve alleged opacity limitation and pushing and traveling violations from older coke oven batteries at its Clairton Plant and to resolve alleged opacity violations from its Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA required U. S. Steel to pay a civil penalty of $301,800 to resolve past alleged violations addressed by the COA. U. S. Steel paid the civil penalty on March 25, 2008. The COA requires U. S. Steel to conduct interim repairs on existing batteries and make improvements at the Ladle Metallurgical Facility and Steelmaking Shop at the Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA also requires that Batteries 7, 8 and 9 be shutdown by January 24, 2013 and Batteries 1, 2 and 3 be shutdown by August 11, 2015. Batteries 7 through 9 were shutdown in April 2009. We are repairing existing Batteries 19 and 20 and we continue to evaluate plans to construct new coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. U. S. Steel is also making upgrades at its Edgar Thomson Plant that would reduce emissions. On September 3, 2009, U. S. Steel Mon Valley Clairton Works incurred a catastrophic failure of its Desulfurization Plant. Because of this event, the Clairton, Edgar Thomson, and Irvin plants have exceeded their sulfur limit for air emissions when burning coke oven gas. The Desulfurization Plant was inoperable from September 3, 2009 through the remainder of 2009. U. S. Steel has provided the regulatory agencies with reports and updates. While no NOV has been issued to date, the Allegheny County Health Department has verbally indicated that it intends to issue a violation notice regarding the inability to desulfuirze the coke oven gas to meet the sulfur loading limits. On October 8, 2009, Mon Valley Clairton Works received a NOV from ACHD alleging that Clairton Works was culpable for hydrogen sulfide (H2S) Pennsylvania ambient air quality standard exceedances. The NOV requires U. S. Steel to submit a plan with milestones to reduce and minimize fugitive emissions of coke oven gas from the coke producing operations at Clairton including identification of coke oven gas emission sources and method of improved emission prevention and control. While U. S. Steel appealed the NOV on October 16, 2009, U. S. Steel 44 Table of Contents submitted an Action Plan to ACHD that was required by the NOV. U. S. Steel and ACHD have performed H2S modeling and are in the process of evaluating all potential sources of H2S in the area. U. S. Steel and ACHD continue to meet and discuss resolution. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a SWMU (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After the acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel has submitted a Closure Plan to IDEM recommending consolidation and in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.0 million and was recorded as an accrued liability as of December 31, 2009. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform an RFI and a CMS at our Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $617,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997. In accordance with the consent decree, U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two supplemental environmental projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the Fairfield Works facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) with the approval of EPA assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works. ADEM is currently reviewing the Phase II RFI work plan. The remaining cost to develop and implement the Phase II RFI work plan is estimated to be $787,000. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc., whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $210,000. In 2006, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of Upper Opossum Creek at a cost of $2.95 million, with a remaining contingency of $18,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. In 2007, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of approximately two acres of land at the former Ensley coke plant. As of December 31, 2009, costs to complete the remediation of this area have amounted to $1.3 million. An additional $49,000 remains accrued for project contingencies at Ensley with an additional $65,000 accrued for the contiguous properties. In total, the accrued liability for the projects described above was $1.0 million as of December 31, 2009, based on estimated remaining costs. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Lorain Tubular Operations In September 2006, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) inviting U. S. Steel to enter into discussions about RCRA Corrective Action at Lorain Tubular Operations. Those discussions resulted in the identification of ten SWMUs and three Areas of Concern (AOC) requiring further investigation and evaluation. In addition, U. S. Steel notified Ohio EPA in August 2009 of an additional SWMU based upon its field observations and a preliminary assessment. Currently, U. S. Steel is implementing a Phase I RFI on the identified SWMUs and AOCs. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has spent $223,000 on studies at 45 Table of Contents this site. Costs to complete additional studies are estimated to be $547,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Great Lakes Works On January 6, 2006, U. S. Steel received a proposed administrative consent order from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the Great Lakes Works facility. On February 13, 2007, MDEQ and U. S. Steel agreed to a revised Administrative Consent Order that resolves this matter. As required by the Administrative Consent Order, U. S. Steel has paid a civil penalty of $300,000 and has reimbursed MDEQ $50,000 in costs. The Order identifies certain compliance actions that address the alleged violations. U. S. Steel has completed work on most of these compliance actions, and has initiated work on the others. One of the compliance actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has completed the corrective measure necessary to remove historical basin sediments from these areas. As of December 31, 2009, $1.8 million had been spent on the project. In addition, $161,000 remains accrued for possible additional requirements to obtain MDEQ approval. Another compliance action includes modifications to the Cold Mill Wastewater Treatment Plant where U. S. Steel has agreed to rehabilitate four clarifiers and two wastewater conveyance pipelines, upgrade the computer control system and evaluate other potential improvements of this system. The vast majority of the elements of this project have been completed at a cost of $8.8 million and U. S. Steel anticipates spending an additional $110,000 most of which will be capitalized. Costs to complete the few remaining compliance actions are presently not determinable. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Great Lakes Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Great Lakes Works violated casthouse roof monitor and baghouse opacity limits; slag pit opacity limits; Basic Oxygen Process roof monitor opacity limits; and certain permit recordkeeping and parametric monitoring requirements. Great Lakes Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the DOJ. Granite City Works U. S. Steel received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004, for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop at our Granite City Works facility. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occurs when coke is pushed out of the ovens, for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. In December 2006, IEPA added to its complaint by adding a release of coke oven gas in February 2006. In October 2007, the Court entered a Second Supplemental Complaint in which IEPA added alleged violations regarding excessive opacity emissions from the blast furnace, and incorrect sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission factors regarding blast furnace gas emissions. On December 18, 2007, U. S. Steel entered into a Consent Order with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA that resolved the Complaint, as supplemented. The Order required that U. S. Steel: (1) pay a penalty of $300,000, which U. S. Steel paid on January 10, 2008; (2) demonstrate compliance with Coke Oven Pushing Operations in accordance with the compliance schedule provided in the Order; (3) comply with the basic oxygen furnace (BOF) opacity emissions in accordance with the schedule provided in the Order; and (4) submit to IEPA a revised permit application with the correct SO2 emission factors, which U. S. Steel submitted in January 2008. On September 30, 2008, U. S. Steel submitted a revised BOF Compliance Schedule and requested to modify the Order consistent with the revised BOF Compliance Schedule. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating with IEPA and the Illinois Attorney General as to what upgrades at the BOF will precede the compliance demonstration. U. S. Steel met with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA on June 11, 2009 to discuss the BOF Compliance Plan and Schedule. While the meeting was productive, the compliance demonstration deadline for the BOF remains indefinitely postponed by agreement of the parties. At Granite City Works, U. S. Steel and Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway), a subsidiary of SunCoke Energy, Inc., have agreed with two environmental advocacy groups to establish an Environmental Trust 46 Table of Contents Fund (Trust), which requires the permittees (U. S. Steel and Gateway) to collectively deposit $1.0 million by September 30th of each year, beginning September 30, 2008 and ending September 30, 2012. U. S. Steel contributed $500,000 to the Trust on September 30, 2008, which amounted to its share of the required 2008 deposit. On September 30, 2009, U. S. Steel contributed an additional $500,000 to the Trust pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. As grantors, U. S. Steel and Gateway have established the Trust as a part of the cost to construct a heat recovery coke plant adjacent to Granite City Works. The capital contribution and all net income of the Trust are to be used for the purposes of promoting energy efficiency, greenhouse gas reductions and PM2.5 emission reduction, to be implemented in the local community where Granite City Works is located. The Trust can be used for projects at public buildings or property owned by the city, local schools, parks and library districts. On February 2, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging approximately 16 separate violations. Specifically, IEPA alleged that Granite City Works: inappropriately charged a battery while off the collecting mains because of (1) damaged coke guides on one occasion and (2) derailment of the pushing control system on two occasions; failed to perform some monthly and quarterly inspections required by Iron & Steel Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards or Coke MACT standards; failed to initiate repairs within 30 days after recording that the baffles on the quench tower were damaged on the monthly inspection report; failed to adequately wash the baffles on the quench tower per the MACT standard; inappropriately used the emergency pour station at the BOP during routine, non emergency maintenance; failed to sufficiently apply a wetting agent to the slag from BF A to minimize fugitive emissions while loading trucks and failed to update and properly implement its Fugitive Dust Program. U. S. Steel provided a written response to IEPA on March 18, 2009 and met with IEPA on April 8, 2009 to resolve the issues identified in the NOV. U. S. Steel supplemented its response on April 29, 2009. IEPA has not made any penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. On March 17, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging the following at Granite City Works: door leaks from B Battery; volatile organic compounds from pressure relief valves from gas blanketing tank; coke by products process unit and information (lacking); failure to report retagging project for benzene in service equipment; and failure to maintain records for benzene in service equipment repairs. U. S. Steel responded to the NOV on May 8, 2009, and met with IEPA regarding the issues identified in the NOV on June 9, 2009. IEPA has not made a penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. In late January 2009, Granite City Works exceeded its natural gas usage and corresponding emission limits for 2008 at designated combustion units, including boilers and ladle drying. A notification letter was submitted to IEPA by U. S. Steel on January 30, 2009. Per U. S. Steels January 30, 2009 correspondence, U. S. Steel provided a Compliance Plan regarding fuel use and fuel balance to IEPA on February 28, 2009. IEPA has not responded to the self reported violations or made any penalty demand. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Granite City Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Granite City Works: failed to apply for an obtain a Prevention of Signficant Deterioration/New Source Review permit for the 1994 B Blast Furnace reline (while the furnace was owned by National Steel Corporation); exceeded BOP roof monitor opacity limits, exceeded blast furnace casthouse roof monitor opacity limits; and failed to complete certain permit recordkeeping and parameteric monitoring requirements. Granite City Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and the current property owner pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality. U. S. Steel developed work plans and completed remediation on certain areas of the site. Having completed the invesigation on a majority of remaining areas identified in the permit, U. S. Steel has 47 Table of Contents determined that the most effective means to address the remaining impacted material is to manage those materials in a previously approved on site Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU). U. S. Steel has recorded a liability of $66 million as of December 2009, for our estimated share of the remaining costs of remediation, including the construction, waste management, closure and post closure of a CAMU. USS POSCO Industries (UPI) At UPI, a joint venture between subsidaries of U. S. Steel and POSCO Industries, corrective measures have been implemented for the majority of the former SWMUs. Seven SWMUs remain at the facility, five of which require further remediation. Prior to the formation of UPI, U. S. Steel owned and operated the Pittsburg, California facility and U. S. Steel retained responsibility for the existing environmental conditions. Two SWMUs may not require further action pending a No Further Action decision by the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC). Of the five SWMUs requiring remediation, U. S. Steel is nearing completion of investigatory work which will result in engineered remedies for two SWMUs. These SWMUs include the impacted ground water at the former wire mill, and the coal tar pitch impacted soils near the old foundry building. U. S. Steel is continuing discussions with the DTSC regarding additional corrective measures that may be required at the three remaining SWMUs within the facility. Arsenic impacted soils and groundwater have been delineated at these three SWMUs. While it is likely that corrective measures will be required at these SWMUs, it is not possible at this time to define a scope or estimate costs for what may be required by DTSC. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Other On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB) entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Implementation of the preferred remedy was essentially completed in late 2007. The respondents are finalizing the Removal Action Summary report by addressing some minor site maintenance issues, deed restrictions and operating and maintenance plans for approval by KDHE. U. S. Steel and SSB continue to work with KDHE to address site maintenance issues. At December 31, 2009, an accrual of $121,000 remains available for these project contingencies. On January 23, 2006, Kansas Department of Health and Environment KDHE sent a letter to U. S. Steel requesting that U. S. Steel address a former zinc smelter site in Girard, Kansas. U. S. Steel completed a site investigation, and submitted a Corrective Action Study (CAS) necessary to address the impacted soils at this site. KDHE approved the CAS on November 17, 2009. In addition, a Consent Agreement and Final Order, through which the remediation will be conducted, remains to be negotiated with KDHE. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has an accrued liability of $1 million to complete the investigation and conduct the remedial measure as proposed in the CAS. In January of 2004, U. S. Steel received notice of a claim from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and notice of claims from citizens of a cap failure at the Dayton Landfill. U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil are the largest PRPs at the site and have agreed to equally share costs for investigating the site, making U. S. Steels share 33 1/3 percent. The Remedial Action Plan for the site was approved by TCEQ in June 2009. On December 10, 2009, pursuant to the Texas Solid Waste Disposal Act, The Cox Road Group (comprised of U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil) filed a contribution/cost of recovery action against apporximately 50 parties in Liberty County, Texas. Implementation of remedial measures is expected to be initiated in 2010. The accrued liability to complete U. S. Steels one third portion of the site investigations and implement the remedial measure was $1.8 million as of December 31, 2009. 48 Table of Contents Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2010, are as follows: Name Age Title Executive OfficerSince George F. Babcoke 53 Senior Vice President European Operations & President U. S. Steel Koice March 1, 2008 James D. Garraux 57 General Counsel & Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs February 1, 2007 John H. Goodish 61 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer December 31, 2001 Gretchen R. Haggerty 54 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer December 31, 2001 David H. Lohr 56 Senior Vice President Strategic Planning, Business Services & Administration June 1, 2008 John P. Surma 55 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer December 31, 2001 Susan M. Suver 50 Vice President Human Resources November 1, 2007 Gregory A. Zovko 48 Vice President & Controller April 1, 2009 All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel or our subsidiaries for more than the past five years, with the exception of Ms. Suver. Prior to joining U. S. Steel, Ms. Suver served as corporate vice president, Global Human Resources for Arrow Electronics, Inc. (Arrow), a $12 billion global provider of industrial and commercial electronic components and computer products. She joined Arrow in 2001 as vice president, Global Organizational Development. Prior to that, she served as vice president, Organization Effectiveness and Communication for Phelps Dodge Corporation. Messrs. Garraux, Goodish and Surma and Ms. Haggerty will hold office until the annual election of executive officers by the Board of Directors following the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or until his or her earlier resignation, retirement or removal. Messrs. Babcoke, Lohr and Zovko and Ms. Suver will hold office until their resignation, retirement or removal. 49 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 61. As of January 31, 2010, there were 20,322 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. Dividends are declared by U. S. Steel on a quarterly basis. For the first quarter of 2009, the dividend declared per share of U. S. Steel common stock was $.30 and for the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, the dividend declared was $.05. For the first and second quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.25 and for the third and fourth quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.30. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds. Shareholder Return Performance The graph below compares the yearly change in cumulative total shareholder return of our common stock with the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poors (S&Ps) 500 Stock Index and the S&P Steel Index. The S&P Steel Index is comprised of U. S. Steel, Nucor Corporation, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated and Worthington Industries, Inc. 50 Table of Contents Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities U. S. Steel had no sales of unregistered securities during the period covered by this report and we have suspended purchases under our Common Stock Repurchase Program. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2009 2008 2007(a) 2006 2005 Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(b) $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 $ 15,715 $ 14,039 (Loss) income from operations(c) (1,684 ) 3,069 1,213 1,785 1,439 Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(c) (1,401 ) 2,112 879 1,374 910 Per Common Share Data: Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(d) basic (10.42 ) 18.04 7.44 11.88 7.87 diluted (10.42 ) 17.96 7.40 11.18 7.00 Dividends per share declared and paid 0.45 1.10 0.80 0.60 0.38 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 15,422 $ 16,087 $ 15,632 $ 10,586 $ 9,822 Capitalization: Debt(e) $ 3,364 $ 3,145 $ 3,257 $ 1,025 $ 1,612 United States Steel Corporation stockholders equity 4,676 4,895 5,531 4,365 3,324 Total capitalization $ 8,040 $ 8,040 $ 8,788 $ 5,390 $ 4,936 (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. (b) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from higher average realized prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe (including favorable foreign currency effects) and higher shipments of flat rolled and tubular products in the U.S. The increase in net sales from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from higher shipments and increased average realized prices prices in all three reportable segments. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2006 to 2007 mainly resulted from higher raw materials and outage related costs in the U.S. and Europe, increased maintenance costs in the U.S., lower average realized prices for tubular products in the U.S. and unfavorable inventory transition effects related to inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco. These were partially offset by higher prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe. The increase from 2005 to 2006 was mainly due to higher average realized prices in the U.S., higher shipments of flat rolled products in the U.S. and in Europe and lower raw materials costs in Europe. These were partially offset by higher raw materials costs in the U.S. (d) See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2009 and 2008 see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from new debt issued to fund the acquisitions of USSC and Lone Star. The decrease from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from the repurchase of most of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due August 1, 2008, and from the repayment and termination of a 195 million credit facility at USSK. 51 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the tenth largest steel producer in the world and the largest integrated steel producer headquartered in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions to produce a wide range of flat rolled and tubular steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil, gas and petrochemical industries. In addition to our facilities in the United States, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Canada through U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) and in Europe through U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), located in Serbia. U. S. Steels financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. While the operating results of our various businesses are affected by a number of business specific factors (see Item 1. Business Steel Industry Background and Competition), the primary drivers for U. S. Steel are general economic conditions in North America, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other benefits costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. Following several years of strong performance, the steel industry and U. S. Steel were quickly and severely impacted by the global recession starting in late 2008. In response to these economic conditions, our strategy has been to enhance our liquidity, maintain a solid balance sheet and position ourselves for success in the longer term. In late 2008 and early 2009, we idled all or portions of numerous steel making, finishing, raw materials and tubular operations in the U.S., Canada and Europe and operated our remaining facilities at reduced levels to match our customers lower demand requirements. We continue to monitor the impact of the economic situation on our customers and to adjust our operations to efficiently meet their requirements. Our raw steel capability utilization rate in 2009 was 48% for Flat rolled operations and 69% for USSE operations. With respect to financial matters, we reduced our quarterly dividend, completed successful offerings of senior convertible notes and common stock and renegotiated the provisions of existing financial covenants with lenders. We initiated substantial cost reduction activities at all locations, including reducing our non represented workforce through restructuring, attrition and early retirement programs. We agreed with the United Steel Workers (USW) to defer certain mandatory trust contributions, implemented a hiring freeze, eliminated merit pay salary increases, suspended the Company match on our 401(k) program, and reduced fees for Board of Directors and base salaries for all general managers and executives. We significantly reduced our capital expenditures for 2009 from the original plan of $740 million to $472 million by focusing largely on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. We voluntarily contributed $140 million to the main defined benefit plan as we still believe that this is appropriate to mitigate larger potential funding requirements in the future. We refinanced $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds extending their maturity dates from 2011 to maturity dates ranging from 2017 to 2030. We finished the year with total liquidity of $2.5 billion, an improvement of nearly $300 million from the average of the previous five year ends. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to earn a competitive return on capital employed by implementing our strategy to be a world leader in safety and environmental performance; to continue to increase our value added product mix; to further expand our global business platform; to maintain a strong capital structure, balance sheet and liquidity position; to continue to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to attract and retain a diverse and talented workforce. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which are impacting the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the level of unfunded pension and other benefits obligations; the degree of industry consolidation; the impact of production and consumption of steel in China and other developing countries; and the levels of steel imports into the markets we serve. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to employee benefits liabilities and assets held in trust relating to such liabilities; the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; goodwill and intangible assets; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations and potential litigation claims and settlements. Managements estimates are based on historical experience, current business and market conditions, and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. LIFO (last in, first out) is the predominant method of inventory costing for inventories in the United States and FIFO (first in, first out) is the predominant method used in Canada and Europe. The LIFO method of inventory costing was used for 49 percent and 39 percent of consolidated inventories at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Equity Method Investments Investments in entities over which U. S. Steel has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are carried at U. S. Steels share of net assets plus loans, advances and our share of earnings less distributions. Differences in the basis of the investment and the underlying net asset value of the investee, if any, are amortized into earnings over the remaining useful life of the associated assets. Income from investees includes U. S. Steels share of income from equity method investments, which is generally recorded a month in arrears, except for significant and unusual items which are recorded in the period of occurrence. Gains or losses from changes in ownership of unconsolidated investees are recognized in the period of change. Intercompany profits and losses on transactions with equity investees have been eliminated in consolidation subject to lower of cost or market inventory adjustments. U. S. Steel evaluates impairment of its equity method investments whenever circumstances indicate that a decline in value below carrying value is other than temporary. Under these circumstances, we would adjust the investment down to its estimated fair value, which then becomes its new carrying value. Pensions and Other Benefits The recording of net periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pensions and other benefits is based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the 53 Table of Contents assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steels investment strategy for its U.S. pension and other benefits plan assets provides for a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality bonds and selected smaller investments in private equities, investment trusts, timber and mineral interests. For its U.S. pension plans, U. S. Steel has a target allocation for plan assets of 60 percent equities with the balance primarily invested in corporate bonds and government backed bonds and Treasury bills. For the Other Benefit plans, the target allocation for plan assets is 65 percent equities. U. S. Steel also believes that returns on equities over the long term will be higher than returns from fixed income securities as actual historical returns from U. S. Steels trusts have shown. Returns on bonds tend to offset some of the shorter term volatility of stocks. Both equity and fixed income investments are made across a broad range of industries and companies to provide protection against the impact of volatility in any single industry as well as company specific developments. U. S. Steel is currently using an 8.00 percent assumed rate of return for purposes of the expected return on assets for the development of net periodic cost for the main defined benefit pension plan and Other Benefits. This rate was chosen by taking into account the intended asset mix and the historical premiums that fixed income and equity investments have yielded above government bonds. Actual returns since the inception of the plans have exceeded this 8.00 percent rate and while some recent annual returns have not, it is U. S. Steels expectation that future periods will return to this level. For USSC defined benefit pension plans, U. S. Steels investment strategy is similar to its strategy for U.S. plans, whereby the Company seeks a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality corporate and government bonds and selected smaller investments with a target allocation for plan assets of 65 percent equities. A 7.50 percent rate of return is being used for the development of net periodic costs in 2010 which is lower than the U.S. pension plan assumption as subcategories within the asset mix are from a more limited investment universe and, as a result, have a lower expected return. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate used to measure both domestic pension and other benefits obligations to 5.5 percent from 6.0 percent. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which we estimate the pension and other benefits liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting the domestic rates, we utilize several AAA and AA corporate bond indices as an indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. For USSC benefit plans, a discount rate was selected through a similar review process using Canadian bond rates and indices and at December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate to 6.0 percent from 6.5 percent for its Canadian based pension and other benefits. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Much of our costs for the domestic USW participants retiree health benefits (other than for most surviving spouses) in the Companys main domestic insurance plan are subject to a cost cap that was negotiated in 2003. As a result of the collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) (see Note 17 to the Financial Statements), our costs are subject to the full impact of escalation for the surviving spouse beneficiaries since their retiree premium contributions are now a flat fixed amount. Escalation applies to most other groups within the Companys insurance plans, but does not apply to most domestic non union retirees since their benefits are limited to flat dollar amounts. For measurement of its domestic retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 8.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2015 and remain at that level thereafter. For measurement of its Canadian retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 7.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2014 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, including multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $270 million in 2010 compared to $271 million in 2009. Pension cost for 2009 included $80 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Total other benefits costs in 2010 are expected to be approximately $150 million, compared to $191 million in 2009. Other benefit costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Excluding the 2009 settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the expected increase in total pension cost is primarily due to a lower market related value of plan assets primarily due to further recognition of the asset losses that were incurred in 2008. 54 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical  1/2 percentage point change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and other benefits calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) 1/2% (1/2%) Expected return on plan assets Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension cost for 2010 $ (52 ) $ 52 Discount rate Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension & other benefits costs for 2010 $ (22 ) $ 32 Pension & other benefits liabilities at December 31, 2009 $ (613 ) $ 658 Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental increase (decrease) in: Service and interest cost components for 2010 $ 8 $ (7 ) Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost over the fair value of acquired identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities assumed from businesses acquired. We have two reporting units that have a significant amount of goodwill. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007. These amounts reflect the benefits we expect the Flat rolled reporting unit to realize from expanding our flexibility in meeting our customers needs and running our Flat rolled facilities at higher operating rates to source our semi finished product needs. Our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition, reflecting the benefits we expect the reporting unit to realize from the expansion of our tubular operations. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. U. S. Steel completed its annual goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of 2009 and determined that there was no goodwill impairment for either reporting unit. Fair value was determined in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820 on fair value, which requires consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable. For the 2009 annual goodwill impairment test, U. S. Steel used fair values estimated under the income approach and the market approach. Although considered, U. S. Steel did not utilize the cost approach as relevant data was not available. The income approach is based upon projected future cash flows discounted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk associated with the future cash flows. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using probability weighted scenarios of future cash flow projections based on managements long range estimates of market conditions over a multiple year horizon. A three percent perpetual growth rate was used to arrive at an estimated future terminal value. A discount rate of 11 percent was used for both reporting units which was based upon the cost of capital of other comparable steel companies, which we view as the most likely market participants. The market approach is based upon an analysis of valuation metrics for companies comparable to our reporting units. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using an appropriate valuation multiple based on this analysis, estimated normalized earnings and an estimated control premium. 55 Table of Contents In order to validate the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units, a reconciliation of the aggregate fair values of all reporting units to market capitalization, using a reasonable control premium, was performed as of the valuation date. We further validated the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units using other valuation metrics that included data from historical U. S. Steel transactions as well as published analyst reports. As of December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively, but would still result in no goodwill impairment charge. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit under the income approach are determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions, including assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or assumed growth rates, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. U. S. Steel has determined that certain acquired intangible assets have indefinite useful lives. These assets are reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long lived assets U. S. Steel evaluates long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of those productive assets exceed their projected undiscounted cash flows. We evaluate the impairment of long lived assets at the asset group level. Our asset groupings are the same as our reporting units. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel determines that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of our deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of our net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. income taxes on undistributed foreign earnings because as of December 31, 2009, it remained managements intention to continue indefinitely to reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2009 amounted to approximately $2,901 million. If such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $870 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss for items that have been or may be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, court case, tax ruling or other authoritative tax position), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2009, the total accrual for environmental remediation was $203 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations. Due to uncertainties inherent in remediation projects, it is possible that total remediation costs for active matters may exceed the accrued liability by as much as 15 to 30 percent. Segments U. S. Steel has three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2008, the operating results of our iron ore operations, which were previously included in Other Businesses, are included in the Flat rolled segment. The iron ore operations are managed as part of our Flat rolled segment, which consumes almost all of our iron ore production. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this change. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels North American integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of slabs, rounds, strip mill plates, sheets and tin mill products , as well as all iron ore and coke production facilities in the United States and Canada. The steel rounds and a portion of the hot rolled sheets produced by Flat rolled are supplied to the Tubular segment. These operations primarily serve North American customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), construction, container, and appliance and electrical markets. Flat rolled has annual raw steel production capability of 24.3 million tons. Flat rolled had annual raw steel production capability of 20.2 million tons for the year ended December 31, 2007 as annual raw steel production capability includes U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Raw steel production was 11.7 million tons in 2009, 19.2 million tons in 2008 and 16.8 million tons in 2007. Raw steel production averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009, 79 percent of capability in 2008 and 83 percent of capability in 2007. The USSE segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and coke production facilities in Slovakia; U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and other facilities in Serbia; and equity investees located in Europe. USSE primarily serves customers in the European construction, service center, conversion, container, transportation (including automotive), appliance and electrical, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. USSE produces and sells slabs, sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill products and spiral welded pipe, as well as heating radiators and refractory ceramic materials. USSE has annual raw steel production capability of 7.4 million tons. USSEs raw steel production was 5.1 million tons in 2009, 6.4 million tons in 2008 and 6.8 million tons in 2007. USSEs raw steel production averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009, 86 percent of capability in 2008 and 92 percent of capability in 2007. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels tubular production facilities, primarily in the United States, and equity investees in the United States and Brazil. These operations produce and sell seamless and electric resistance welded (ERW) steel casing and tubing (commonly known as oil country tubular goods or OCTG), standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. Tubulars annual production capability is 2.8 million tons. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses include transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations and engineering consulting services. For further information, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents Net Sales (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Net Sales by Segment (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2009 2008 2007(b) Flat rolled(a) $ 6,814 $ 13,789 $ 9,986 USSE 2,944 5,487 4,667 Tubular 1,216 4,251 1,985 Total sales from reportable segments 10,974 23,527 16,638 Other Businesses(a) 74 227 235 Net sales $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 (a) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements. (b) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2009 versus Year Ended December 31, 2008 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 40 % 8 % 0 % 1 % 2 % 51 % USSE 20 % 20 % 1 % 3 % 2 % 46 % Tubular 63 % 5 % 1 % 0 % 4 % 71 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The decrease in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected decreased shipments (down 7.0 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $129 per net ton). The decrease in sales for USSE was primarily due to decreased shipments (down 1.2 million net tons) and lower average realized euro based transaction prices (down $295 per net ton including foreign currency translation effects). The decrease in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from decreased shipments (down 1.3 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $286 per net ton). 58 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 versus Year Ended December 31, 2007 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 19 % 19 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 38 % USSE 7 % 18 % 1 % 7 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 40 % 64 % 4 % 0 % 6 % 114 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The increase in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected higher average realized prices (up $138 per ton) and increased shipments, primarily due to the inclusion of USSC for all of 2008. The increase in sales for USSE was primarily due to higher average realized euro based transaction prices and currency translation effects, partially offset by reduced shipments. Including the currency translation effects, reported average realized prices increased $212 per ton from 2007. The increase in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from higher average realized prices (up $706 per ton) and increased shipments, partially due to the inclusion of the former Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) facilities for the entire year in 2008. Operating Expenses Profit based union payments Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Allocated to segment results $ $ 237 $ 119 Retiree benefit expenses 99 Total $ $ 237 $ 218 Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 did not include any costs for profit based payments to employees represented by the USW because the base threshold of operating income agreed to in the 2008 CBAs was not met. Results for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 include costs related to profit based payments. These costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Profit based payment amounts per the agreements with the USW are calculated as a percentage of consolidated income from operations (as defined in the agreements) and are paid as profit sharing to active USW represented employees (excluding employees of USSC) based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. Amounts in 2007 also include costs related to a trust that was to be used to assist retirees from National Steel with health care costs. Pension and other benefits costs Defined benefit and multiemployer pension plan costs totaled $271 million during 2009, $78 million during 2008 and $129 million in 2007. Pension costs during 2009 included $80 million for several voluntary early retirement programs (VERPs) and losses in connection with the sale of a majority of the operating assets of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E). Excluding these losses, the increase in expense from 2008 to 2009 mainly reflected the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Pension costs during 2007 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $20 million. Excluding these losses, the decrease in expense from 2007 to 2008 mainly reflected the improved funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $25 million during 2009, $35 million during 2008 and $26 million during 2007. Costs in 2009 included $13 million for VERP related benefits under these plans. Other benefits costs, which are included in income from operations, totaled $191 million in 2009, $149 million in 2008 and $136 million in 2007. Other benefits costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and 59 Table of Contents curtailment losses. Excluding these losses, the increase in 2009 was primarily due to impacts of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs partially offset by lower costs at USSC as a result of favorable claims experience. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of expenses related to USSC employees for the full year. For additional information on pensions and other benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Nonretirement postemployment benefits U. S. Steel incurred costs of and paid approximately $85 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 related to employee costs for supplemental unemployment benefits, salary continuance and continuation of health care benefits and life insurance coverage for employees associated with the temporary idling of certain facilities and reduced production at others. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $618 million in 2009, $625 million in 2008 and $589 million in 2007. Pension and other benefits costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $164 million in 2009, $47 million in 2008 and $86 million in 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses remained consistent from 2008 to 2009 but were impacted by an increase in pension and OPEB costs offset by a decrease in compensation expense. The increase in 2008 mainly resulted from increased expenses related to our 2007 acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and higher compensation expense, partially offset by lower pension expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization Depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses were $661 million in 2009, $605 million in 2008 and $506 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily related to the fact that effective January 1, 2009 we eliminated the use of the modified straight line method, which was previously used for certain steel producing assets in the United States. The increase in 2008 was primarily related to the full year impact of assets acquired in the business acquisitions during 2007. The modification factors previously applied to straight line calculations ranged from a minimum of 85 percent at a production level below 81 percent of capability, to a maximum of 105 percent for a 100 percent production level. No modification was made at the 95 percent production level. Applying modification factors decreased depreciation expense, when compared to a straight line calculation, by $58 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 60 Table of Contents (Loss) Income from Operations(a) Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 2007 Flat rolled(b) $ (1,438 ) $ 1,390 $ 382 USSE (208 ) 491 687 Tubular 57 1,207 356 Total (loss) income from reportable segments (1,589 ) 3,088 1,425 Other Businesses(b) (2 ) 77 84 Segment (loss) income from operations (1,591 ) 3,165 1,509 Retiree benefit expenses (134 ) (22 ) (143 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Federal excise tax refund 34 Litigation reserve 45 (45 ) Net (loss) gain on the sale of assets 97 Environmental remediation charge (49 ) (23 ) Workforce reduction charges (86 ) (57 ) Deferred gain recognition 150 Labor agreement signing payments (105 ) Asset impairment charge (28 ) Flat rolled inventory transition effects (23 ) (58 ) Tubular inventory transition effects (38 ) Total (loss) income from operations $ (1,684 ) $ 3,069 $ 1,213 (a) See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280. (b) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. 61 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled (Includes USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007) The Flat rolled segment generated a loss of $1,438 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $1,390 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted mainly from unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $2,450 million), lower income from reduced steel substrate sales to our Tubular segment (approximately $400 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities (approximately $360 million), facility restart costs (approximately $70 million) and lower income from equity investments (approximately $190 million). These were partially offset by lower raw material and natural gas costs (approximately $370 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $300 million). The increase in Flat rolleds segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 resulted mainly from higher commercial effects (approximately $2,780 million) and increased income from semi finished steel sales to Tubular (approximately $470 million). These were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials (approximately $1,560 million) and energy (approximately $280 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $170 million) and higher accruals for profit based payments (approximately $150 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. 62 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE The USSE segment generated a loss of $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $491 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $1,300 million) and reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $135 million) partially offset by lower raw material costs (approximately $620 million), reduced facility repair and maintenance costs (approximately $60 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $50 million). The decrease in USSEs segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to higher raw materials and energy costs (approximately $780 million), net unfavorable currency effects (approximately $50 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $40 million) and outage related costs (approximately $30 million), partially offset by higher commercial effects (approximately $740 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. Capability utilization in 2008 was adversely affected by the reline of the No. 1 blast furnace in Slovakia and by reduced operations late in the year to match declining customer demand. 63 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular (Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007) The decrease in Tubulars segment income in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to unfavorable commercial effects (approximately $1,080 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities and facilities operating at reduced production levels (approximately $35 million and $60 million, respectively) and write downs of inventory (approximately $35 million). These were partially offset by lower costs of substrate steel purchases from the Flat rolled segment (approximately $40 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $55 million). The increase in Tubulars segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 mainly resulted from higher commercial effects (approximately $1,580), due in part to the inclusion of results for facilities acquired from Lone Star for the entire year. This was partially offset by increased costs for semi finished steel (approximately $610 million) from Flat rolled and outside sources. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses generated a loss of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $77 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted from the impacts of the global recession and the sale of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E) in the first quarter of 2009. Results for Other Businesses decreased by $7 million from 2007 to 2008. Items not allocated to segments: Retiree benefit expenses increased significantly from 2008 to 2009 mainly due to the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Retiree benefit expenses decreased significantly from 2007 to 2008 mainly due to lower retiree pension expense (See Operating Expenses Pension and other benefits costs) and lower profit based expense related to certain former National Steel employees (See Operating Expenses Profit based union payments). 64 Table of Contents During 2009, U. S. Steel received a federal excise tax refund of $34 million associated with the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales from 1990 to 1992. A litigation reserve of $45 million involving a rate escalation provision in a U. S. Steel power supply contract was established in 2008 as a result of a court ruling and was subsequently reversed in 2009 as that decision was overturned. See Part II. Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings. We recorded a $97 million pre tax net gain on sale of assets in 2009 as a result of the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. The net gain included a pension curtailment loss of approximately $10 million. We recorded a $49 million environmental remediation charge in 2009 in connection with the definition of an expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works. We recorded a $23 million environmental remediation charge in 2008 as the scope of work became defined for an environmental project at a former operating location. Workforce reduction charges of $86 million in 2009 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a VERP offered in the first quarter of 2009 to certain non represented employees in the United States. Workforce reduction charges of $57 million in 2007 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a voluntary early retirement plan offered to certain employees at USSK. We recognized a noncash deferred gain of $150 million in 2008 in connection with the termination of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements. The 2008 CBAs provided for labor agreement signing payments of up to $6,000 per employee which resulted in a charge of $105 million in 2008. An asset impairment charge of $28 million in 2008 resulted from our decision to exit the drawn over mandrel (DOM) tubular products business. The charge was taken principally to write down to fair value equipment associated with the DOM business. Inventory transition effects of $23 million in 2008 and $96 million in 2007 reflected the charges for conforming certain inventories acquired from Lone Star to our unified business model, and the impact of selling inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco, which had been recorded at fair value. Net Interest and Other Financial Costs Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Interest and other financial costs $ 179 $ 179 $ 162 (a) Interest income (10 ) (14 ) (79 )(a) Foreign currency gains (8 ) (103 ) (4 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 26 Net interest and other financial costs $ 161 $ 62 $ 105 (a) The year ended December 31, 2007 includes $27 million of interest expense and offsetting interest income related to the obligation to provide benefits for National Steel retirees that was settled in the fourth quarter of 2007. While the obligation was outstanding, U. S. Steel invested the amount due in short term investments and interest earned on those investments was also payable. The increase in net interest and other financial costs from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to lower foreign currency gains. The decrease in net interest and other financial costs from 2007 to 2008 was mainly due to higher foreign currency gains and the nonrecurrence of the $26 million charge in 2007 related to the early redemption of certain debt, partially offset by increased interest expense resulting from debt incurred to fund the acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and lower interest income. 65 Table of Contents The foreign currency gains include remeasurement effects on a U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan (the Intercompany Loan) from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary related to the 2007 acquisition of USSC that had an outstanding balance of $892 million at December 31, 2009, partially offset by losses on euro U.S. dollar derivatives activity, which we use to mitigate our foreign currency exposure. Volatility in the foreign currency markets could have significant implications for U. S. Steel going forward as a result of the foreign currency accounting remeasurement effects resulting from the Intercompany Loan and foreign currency gains and losses on derivatives activity. For additional information on U. S. Steels foreign currency exchange activity see Note 15 to the Financial Statements and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. Income Taxes The income tax benefit in 2009 was $439 million, compared to provisions of $853 million in 2008 and $218 million in 2007. The tax benefit in 2009 is primarily related to the net loss for the period. The effective tax benefit rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 is lower than the statutory rate because losses in Canada and Serbia, which are jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, do not generate a tax benefit for accounting purposes. The increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily reflected higher income and a higher effective tax rate as a result of a lower percentage of pre tax earnings generated by our European operations. The net domestic deferred tax asset was $731 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $802 million at December 31, 2008. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset from 2009 to 2008 was primarily a result of the remeasurement of the pension and other benefits plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements). At December 31, 2009, the foreign deferred tax assets recorded were $103 million, net of established valuation allowances of $575 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the euro, the Canadian dollar and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian deferred tax assets due to the absence of positive evidence at USSC to support the realizability of the assets. A full valuation allowance is provided for Serbian deferred tax assets because current projected investment tax credits, which must be used before net operating losses and credit carryforwards, are more than sufficient to offset future tax liabilities. As USSC and USSS generate sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $514 million for Canadian deferred tax assets and $46 million for Serbian deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009, would be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. For further information on income taxes see Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Net income Net loss in 2009 was $1,401 million compared to income of $2,112 million in 2008 and $879 million in 2007. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2009 decreased by $717 million from year end 2008 primarily due to lower inventories and lower receivables partially offset by higher cash balances (see Cash Flows). The decrease in inventories primarily resulted from lower quantities of higher cost raw materials. Raw material inventory quantities decreased as U. S. Steel maintained lower operating rates throughout 2009 and reduced raw material purchases as a cash conservation measure. Receivables decreased mainly due to lower sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, due primarily to lower average realized prices. These decreases were partially offset by the recognition of an income tax receivable representing a portion of the federal income tax refund that we expect to receive in 2010 as a result of carrying back our expected 2009 losses to prior years. Goodwill of $1,725 million increased by $116 million from year end 2008 mainly as goodwill attributable to the acqusition of Stelco were reported at higher amounts due to foreign currency translation effects. 66 Table of Contents Assets held for sale at December 31, 2009 consist of certain assets at Hamilton Works, primarily property, plant and equipment, and decreased from December 31, 2008 as a result of the sale of the majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. Total deferred income tax benefits at year end 2009 remained consistent with the balance at year end 2008. Deferred income tax benefits were primarily impacted by an increase in foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards offset by an increase in the valuation allowance, since a full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian and Serbian deferred tax assets, and a decrease in the deferred income tax benefit related to employee benefits. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Current liabilities at year end 2009 decreased by $304 million from year end 2009 due mainly to lower payroll and benefits payable resulting from the absence of accruals for profit based payments and lower accrued taxes resulting from reduced net income in 2009 compared to 2008. Several balance sheet accounts changed as a result of an improvement in the net funded status of our pension and other employee benefits plans. Employee benefits decreased by $624 million and the accumulated other comprehensive loss decreased by $541 billion. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The decrease in the accumulated other comprehensive loss was also due to foreign currency translation effects as a result of the weakening U.S. dollar versus the Euro and the Canadian dollar. The increase in long term debt from December 31, 2008 was mainly due to our public offering in May 2009 of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014, partially offset by the repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. See Liquidity. Common stock and Additional paid in capital increased by $27 million and $666 million, respectively, compared to year end 2008 primarily as a result of our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May 2009. See Liquidity. Cash Flows Net cash used in operating activities was $61 million in 2009 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1,658 million in 2008 and $1,732 million in 2007. This change was primarily related to a net loss of approximately $696 million after adjustments for noncash items in 2009 compared to income of approximately $2.6 billion after adjustments for noncash items in 2008. The favorable working capital change in 2009 of approximately $1.3 billion mainly reflected lower inventory and receivables levels, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items in 2008 compared to 2007 was more than offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency translation effects due mainly to the strengthening of the U. S. dollar and unfavorable working capital effects (excluding the 2007 acquisitions). The unfavorable working capital change in 2008 mainly reflected higher inventory levels and the repurchase of receivables, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities for 2009 was increased and net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 and 2007 was reduced by employee benefits payments as shown in the following table. 67 Table of Contents Employee Benefits Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ 140 $ 140 $ 140 Required contributions to other defined benefit pension plans 79 73 23 Other employee benefits payments not funded by trusts 285 236 213 Contributions to trusts for retiree health care and life insurance(a) 12 228 498 Payments to a multiemployer pension plan 58 33 30 Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts 84 29 17 Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ 658 $ 739 $ 921 (a) Includes $143 million in 2008 and $468 million in 2007 for a company contribution to U. S. Steels trust for retiree health care and life insurance fulfilling the Companys obligation under an agreement with the USW regarding benefits for certain former National Steel employees. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and healthcare by the end of 2011. Capital expenditures variable interest entities was $147 million in 2009 and $161 million in 2008. This primarily reflects spending by Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) for a non recovery coke plant to supply Granite City Works. This spending is consolidated in our financial results but is funded by Gateway and, therefore, is completely offset by amounts included in distributions from noncontrolling interests, which is included in cash flow from financing activities. 68 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2009 of $472 million consisted largely of non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long term strategic importance, as we substantially reduced our capital spending from the original plan of $740 million to conserve liquidity. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $338 million in 2009included spending development of an enterprise resourceplanning (ERP) system, non discretionary environmentalprojects, maintenance on the No. 14 blast furnace at GaryWorks and cokemaking projects at Granite City Works andthe Clairton Plant, including the construction of acogeneration facility at Granite City Works. USSEexpenditures of $113 million included spending at USSK forthe maintenance of the No.3 blast furnace, a coke oven gasdesulphurization project and spending for development of theERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $465 million in 2008 included spending for modernization of our cokemaking facilities, including expenditures for construction of a cogeneration facility at Granite City Works, development of an ERP system and replacement of open pit mining equipment at our iron ore operations USSE expenditures of $210 million included spending at USSK for the reline of the No.1 blast furnace, for replacement of electrical power transformers and to upgrade a continuous caster, and spending for development of the ERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $418 million in 2007 included spending for development of an ERP system, blast furnace stove replacements at Granite City Works and Great Lakes Works, coke oven thru wall repairs primarily at our Clairton Plant and open pit mining equipment and an environmental project at our iron ore operations. USSE expenditures of $215 million included spending at USSK for an air emission reduction project and a new automotive quality galvanizing line, spending at USSS for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace, and spending for development of an ERP system. Construction of the new galvanizing line was completed in February 2007. 69 Table of Contents U. S. Steels contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2009, totaled $152 million. Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to total approximately $530 million and remain focused largely on environmental and other infrastructure projects. We continue to evaluate investments of long term strategic importance, including projects to invest in production of coke and coke substitutes, given that some of our existing coke batteries are approaching the end of their useful lives, to reduce coke requirements in Serbia through blast furnace coal injection, to enhance our Tubular operations in order to more efficiently serve customers increased focus on shale natural gas resources and to allow us to increase our participation in the automotive market as vehicle emission and safety requirements become more stringent. In light of the significant capital commitment that such projects would entail over the next several years, we may seek to secure some long term funding for such projects and general corporate purposes prior to committing to such projects. The preceding statement concerning expected 2010 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, ability to secure long term funding, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, receipt of necessary permits and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Z Line Company reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of pickle lines reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. reflected $2,050 million paid at closing, net of cash acquired of $71 million; plus $14 million of transaction costs to acquire all of the outstanding shares. Acquisition of Stelco Inc. reflected $1,237 million paid to acquire all of the outstanding stock and stock equivalents, $785 million paid to retire substantially all of the outstanding debt and $34 million paid to Stelcos main pension plans, net of cash acquired of $32 million; plus $13 million of transaction costs. Disposal of assets in 2009 reflected pre tax cash proceeds of approximately $300 million from the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E and $36 million from the sale of emissions allowances at U. S. Steel Koice (USSK). Restricted cash in 2009 primarily reflected collateral required on previously unsecured obligations. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2008 primarily reflected amounts drawn against a USSK 200 million three year revolving credit facility, the proceeds of which were used to reduce the Intercompany Loan (see Liquidity), as well as borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Repayments of revolving credit facilities in 2008 reflected repayment of borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Common stock issued in 2009 resulted from our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2009 resulted primarily from our public offering in May of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014. Also in 2009, we issued $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds (ERBs), maturing from 2017 to 2030. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the issuance of $300 million principal amount of 5.65% Senior Notes due 2013, $450 million principal amount of 70 Table of Contents 6.05% Senior Notes due 2017, $350 million principal amount of 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 and $500 million principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018; and our entrance into two $500 million term loans and a $400 million term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2009 primarily reflected repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. Also in 2009, we completed the refunding of $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds. See Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2008 primarily reflected payments on our term loans, including the early retirement of $300 million of our three year term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the early redemption of $378 million of 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010, the early redemption of $49 million of 10% Senior Quarterly Income Debt Securities due 2031 and the repayment of a $400 million term loan. Common stock repurchased in 2008 and 2007 totaled 2.0 million shares and 1.2 million shares, respectively. Our share repurchase program was originally authorized in July 2005. In 2006, our Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2009, 4.4 million shares remained authorized for repurchase. In late 2008, we suspended repurchases under this program as part of our reaction to the difficult global economic environment. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock 4th Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 1st Qtr. 2009 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.30 2008 $ 0.30 $ 0.30 $ 0.25 $ 0.25 2007 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 Liquidity The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2009: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,218 Amount available under $750 Million Credit Facility(b) 638 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 93 Amounts available under USSS credit facilities 55 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,504 (b) As of December 31, 2009, there were no amounts drawn on the Amended Credit Agreement and inventory levels supported the full $750 million of the facility. Since availability was greater than $112.5 million, compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio was not applicable. However, based on the most recent four quarters, as of December 31, 2009, we would not meet the fixed charge coverage ratio if we were to borrow more than $637.5 million. Therefore, we reduced the availability reflected by $112.5 million. 71 Table of Contents (a) Excludes $20 million, $20 million and $27 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, of cash primarily related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership (Partnership) because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. On October 31, 2008, we acquired the equity interests in the Partnership that we did not wholly own. Excludes $1 million of cash at December 31, 2008 related to our variable interest entities. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment and restatement of its $750 million Credit Agreement dated May 11, 2007 (Amended Credit Agreement) with a group of lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (Agent). U. S. Steel simultaneously entered into a security agreement with the Agent (Security Agreement) providing for a security interest in the majority of its domestic inventory. The Amended Credit Agreement established a borrowing base formula, which limits the amounts U. S. Steel can borrow to a certain percent of the value of certain domestic inventory less specified reserves, and eliminates the previous financial covenants that consisted of interest and leverage coverage ratios. The Amended Credit Agreement contains a new financial covenant requiring U. S. Steel to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (defined as consolidated EBITDA less certain capital expenditures and cash income tax expense to certain fixed charges) of at least 1.10 to 1.00 for the most recent four consecutive quarters when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million. The Amended Credit Agreement includes revised pricing and other customary terms and conditions, and will expire on May 11, 2012. For further information regarding the Amended Credit Agreement and Security Agreement, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) that provides up to $500 million of liquidity and letters of credit depending upon the number of eligible domestic receivables generated by U. S. Steel. The commitments under the RPA expire in September 2010. Domestic trade accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. If U. S. Steel decides to access this facility, USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables and if any of them are unable to fund such purchases, two banks are committed to do so. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into agreements which amended the RPA. These agreements increase certain reserve factors and percentages, provide for a termination event if there is a change of control of U. S. Steel, amend the definition of Eligible Receivables, change certain performance triggers and make conforming and clarifying changes. 72 Table of Contents The RPA may be terminated on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, failure by U. S. Steel to make payments under our material debt obligations and any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. For further information regarding the agreements, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. On May 4, 2009, U. S. Steel completed a public offering of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014 and 27,140,000 shares of its Common Stock. U. S. Steel received net proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion and used $655 million to repay all amounts outstanding under its three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Convertible Notes was $863 million. On December 11, 2009, USSK entered into a 10 million (approximately $14 million at December 31, 2009) unsecured revolving credit facility as the sole obligor. The facility expires January 2011. The facility bears interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contains other customary terms and conditions. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the facility. At December 31, 2009, USSK had no borrowings against its 40 million, 20 million and 10 million unsecured credit facilities (which approximated $101 million) but had $8 million of customs and other guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $93 million. At December 31, 2009, USSK had 200 million (approximately $288 million) fully drawn against a 200 million unsecured credit facility. USSK is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The 10 million facility expires January 2011, the 200 million facility expires July 2011, the 40 million facility expires October 2012 and the 20 million facility expires December 2012. During 2009, USSS amended its secured credit facility agreements to limit availability to the value of USSS inventory of finished and semi finished goods. These facilities include an 800 million Serbian dinar overdraft facility and a 40 million revolving credit facility (together approximately $69 million). USSS is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The facilities expire August 2010. At December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings against these facilities and availability was 39 million (approximately $55 million). On May 21, 2007, U. S. Steel issued a total of $1.1 billion of senior notes consisting of $350 million at 6.65 percent due 2037, $450 million at 6.05 percent due 2017, and $300 million at 5.65 percent due 2013, (collectively, the Senior Notes). The Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Notes was $1.1 billion. On December 10, 2007, U. S. Steel issued $500 million of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018 (the 2018 Senior Notes). The 2018 Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the 2018 Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. As of December 31, 2009, the principal amount outstanding under the 2018 Senior Notes was $500 million. We use surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. The use of some forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $150 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2009. Increases in these commitments which use collateral are reflected in restricted cash on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 73 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, in the event of a change in control of U. S. Steel, debt obligations totaling $2,462 million, which includes the Senior Notes and the Senior Convertible Notes, may be declared immediately due and payable. In such event, U. S. Steel may also be required to either repurchase the leased Fairfield slab caster for $45 million or provide a letter of credit to secure the remaining obligation. In the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, obligations of $354 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases, as well as $26 million relating to an operating lease, may be declared immediately due and payable. The guarantees of the indebtedness of unconsolidated entities of U. S. Steel totaled $11 million at December 31, 2009. In the event that any default related to the guaranteed indebtedness occurs, U. S. Steel has access to its interest in the assets of the investee to reduce its potential losses under the guarantee. U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $140 million to the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in both 2009 and 2008. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions of similar amounts in 2010 or later periods in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory contributions in later years. The contributions actually required will be greatly influenced by the level of voluntary contributions, the performance of pension fund assets in the financial markets, the elective use or disavowal of existing credit balances in future periods and various other economic factors and actuarial assumptions that may come to influence the level of the funded position in future years. The 2008 Collective Bargaining Agreements (see Note 17) require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions during the contract period to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance. This contribution is in addition to an annual $10 million required contribution to the same trust that continues from an earlier agreement. Under this earlier agreement, a $20 million contribution is required if the Company does not contribute at least $75 million to its main pension plan in the prior year. During 2008, the Company made $85 million in contributions to the trust under these agreements, as well as a $143 million contribution to cover some of the health and life benefits for certain retirees of National Steel Corporation. During the first quarter of 2009, the Company made a $10 million contribution to this trust. In April 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the annual $75 million mandatory contributions due in 2009 and the $10 million contribution due in January 2010. Further, the USW has agreed to permit us to use all or part of the $75 million contribution made in 2008 to pay current retiree health care and life insurance claims, subject to a make up contribution in 2013. Through December 31, 2009, none of the 2008 contribution funds have been used by the Company. In conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco, now USSC (see Note 4), U. S. Steel assumed the pension plan funding agreement (the Pension Agreement) that Stelco had entered into with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Province) on March 31, 2006 that covers USSCs four main pension plans. The Pension Agreement requires minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and additional annual contributions for benefit improvements, which currently are limited to the union retiree indexing provisions. The defined annual contributions will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. In its acquisition of Stelco on October 31, 2007, U. S. Steel assumed liability for a note issued to the Province of Ontario (Province Note) (see Note 4 to the Financial Statements). The face amount of the Province Note is C$150 million (approximately $142 million at December 31, 2009) and is payable on December 31, 2015. The Province Note is unsecured and is subject to a 75 percent discount if the solvency deficiencies in the four main USSC pension plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements) are eliminated on or before the maturity date. 74 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2009, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Long term debt (including interest) and capital leases(a) $ 4,954 $ 202 $ 943 $ 1,414 $ 2,395 Operating leases(b) $ 173 40 59 34 40 Unconditional purchase obligations(c) $ 11,540 4,442 2,627 1,305 3,166 Capital commitments(d) $ 152 114 38 Environmental commitments(d) $ 203 17 186 (e) Steelworkers Pension Trust $ 286 (f) 54 113 119 (f) (f) Pensions(g) $ 451 83 153 145 70 Other benefits(h) $ 1,940 (i) 415 880 645 (i) Unrecognized tax positions $ 106 106 (e) Total contractual obligations $ 19,805 $ 5,367 $ 4,813 $ 3,662 $ 5,963 (a) See Note 16 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Amounts exclude subleases. (c) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. Additionally, includes coke and steam purchase commitments related to a coke supply agreement with Gateway Energy & Coke Company LLC (See Note 18). (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Timing of potential cash flows is not reasonably determinable. (f) While It is difficult to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, which expire in 2012, projected amounts shown through 2014 assume that the current $2.65 contribution rate per hour will apply. (g) Amounts shown represent projected cash requirements for USSC pension plans, most of which relates to a funding scheme for USSCs four main plans, whereby under an agreement with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Pension Agreement), USSC is responsible for minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and smaller annual contributions for benefit improvements related to prior cost of living adjustments. The Pension Agreement will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015 when minimum funding requirements under the Pension Benefits Act will resume. U.S. dollar equivalents of contributions are based on foreign exchange rates as of December 31, 2009 and shown projected through 2015. (h) Excludes profit based payments that may be required through September 1, 2012, pursuant to the provisions of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments that may be required. (i) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for retiree medical and retiree life benefit obligations which require the use of corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2010 through 2014 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and include mandatory contributions to the USW VEBA trust of $75 million in 2010 and $85 million in both 2011 and 2012. Projected amounts do not reflect optional drawdowns from the USW VEBA trust if U. S. Steel decides to utilize certain options available under its agreements with the USW. Amounts to be used from the VEBA trust will be determined in 2010 and later years. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the asset trust mix, medical escalation rates and company decisions or restrictions related to our trusts for retiree healthcare and life insurance that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Due to these factors, amounts shown above could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. 75 Table of Contents Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table except for the contributions required for USSCs defined benefit pension plans. (See footnote (g) of the above table). U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and other benefits during 2010 and 2011. U. S. Steel may make voluntary contributions in 2010 or later periods to the main defined benefit pension plan in the United States in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory required contributions in later years. In addition to the USSC amounts included in the above table, U. S. Steel expects to make cash payments of $15 million to other pension plans not funded by trusts. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2009, and the effect such commitments could have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 122 $ 109 $ $ $ 13 (c) Surety bonds(a) 18 18 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 33 33 (c) Marathon Oil Corporation(a)(b) 26 26 Total commercial commitments $ 199 $ 109 $ 26 $ $ 64 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) Reflects the amount of U. S. Steels operating lease obligations that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. Our major cash requirements in 2010 are expected to be for capital expenditures, employee benefits and working capital requirements. We finished 2009 with $1.2 billion of available cash. As business conditions recover, our working capital requirements will likely increase and we may need to draw upon our credit facilities for necessary cash. Funding under the RPA and the Amended Credit Agreement is based on a pool of eligible domestic receivables and domestic inventory, respectively, both of which have declined as a result of lower orders and our efforts to reduce working capital. A sudden increase in orders could require a significant amount of investment in working capital. Should we experience a significant increase in orders or an unexpected need for funds that cannot be met with available cash and our liquidity facilities, we may need to access the capital markets. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy our obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Our opinion regarding liquidity is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than recent levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Debt and Senior Convertible Notes Ratings The ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt by Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) are BB and Ba3, respectively. On January 27, 2010, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) lowered its ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt from BBB to BB+ and revised its outlook to stable. Any further downgrades could reduce our access to the capital markets and increase our financing costs. 76 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, a portion of the labor force used by the investees is provided by U. S. Steel, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. In September 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utilities at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a cogeneration facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. U. S. Steel is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay annual capacity and operating and maintenance fees. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, which was effective January 1, 2004. During the initial 5 year period, U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that were annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Other guarantees, indemnifications and take or pay arrangements are discussed in Notes 18 and 28 to the Financial Statements. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations and similar obligations in Europe and Canada, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent that these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that our major North American, and many European, integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that our relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills, some foreign steel producers (particularly in developing economies such as China) and producers of materials which compete with steel, all of which may not be required to incur equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to our prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Many of our competitors do not have similar historical liabilities. Our U. S. facilities are subject to the U.S. environmental standards, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. 77 Table of Contents USSC is subject to the environmental laws of Canada, which are comparable to environmental standards in the United States. Environmental regulation in Canada is an area of shared responsibility between the federal government and the provincial governments, which in turn delegate certain matters to municipal governments. Federal environmental statutes include the federal Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 and the Fisheries Act. Various provincial statutes regulate environmental matters such as the release and remediation of hazardous substances; waste storage, treatment and disposal; and air emissions. As in the United States, Canadian environmental laws (federal, provincial and local) are undergoing revision and becoming more stringent. The Canadian and Ontario governments have identified a sediment deposit in Hamilton Harbor near USSCs Hamilton Works for remediation, which the regulatory agencies estimated several years ago will require expenditures of approximately C$90 million (approximately $85 million). The national and provincial governments have each allocated C$30 million (approximately $28 million) for this project and they have stated that they will be looking for local sources, including industry, to fund the remaining one third. USSC has committed C$7 million (approximately $7 million) as its contribution. Additional contributions may be sought. USSK is subject to the environmental laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). A related law of the EU commonly known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, Regulation 1907/2006) requires the registration of certain substances that are produced in the EU or imported into the EU. USSK pre registered various substances during the six month pre registration period that ended November 30, 2008, both on its own behalf and on behalf of U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries that may be shipping products into the EU. USSK is compliant with REACH and intends to register its substances by the applicable deadlines to remain in compliance and be able to continue its businesses without material change. USSS is subject to the environmental laws of Serbia. Under the terms of the acquisition in 2003, USSS is responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study in June 2004, which was submitted to the Government of Serbia. During 2008 and 2009, USSS spent approximately $50 million to reduce air particulate emissions and undertake other environmental projects pursuant to an agreement with the Serbian government. Many nations, including all where we operate, have or are considering the regulation of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Regulation of CO2 emissions is relevant to the steel industry and U. S. Steel. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States House of Representatives has passed a bill, a bill has been introduced to the Senate and the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified CO2 as a harmful gas. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 North America: Capital $ 28 $ 44 $ 21 Compliance Operating & maintenance 294 409 278 Remediation(a) 19 27 28 Total North America $ 341 $ 480 $ 327 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 55 $ 51 Compliance Operating & maintenance 16 17 18 Remediation(a) 7 18 7 Total USSE $ 90 $ 90 $ 76 Total U. S. Steel $ 431 $ 570 $ 403 (a) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. 78 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 20 percent of total capital expenditures in 2009, 11 percent in 2008 and 10 percent in 2007. Environmental compliance expenditures represented three percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2009 and two percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2008 and 2007. Remediation spending during 2007 through 2009 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at our Fairless Plant and Lorain Tubular Operations. RCRA corrective action programs have been initiated at Gary Works, Fairfield Works and USS POSCO Industries. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. The following table shows activity with respect to environmental remediation liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 410. Environmental Remediation Liabilities (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Beginning Balance $ 162 $ 142 Plus: Additions 57 37 Less: Payments (16 ) (17 ) Ending Balance $ 203 $ 162 New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2010. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $168 million in 2010, $89 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2010 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2011, including $26 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at USSC assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic 79 Table of Contents downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active asbestoscases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional details concerning asbestos litigation see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel will vigorously defend these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Outlook for First Quarter 2010 We expect to report an overall operating loss in first quarter 2010 as gradually improving business conditions begin to be reflected in our operating results. We continue to experience improved order rates from several of our end markets. Automotive, service center, converter and appliance customer order rates in North America and Europe are at or near their highest levels in the last twelve months, while in other markets, such as construction, demand remains soft, but due to the low levels of inventory and the anticipated seasonal increases in activity at the end of the first quarter, our construction order book remains stable for both North America and Europe. A gradually strengthening economy should result in improvements in real demand, while apparent demand will likely be positively influenced by the restocking of the manufacturing supply chain, which we believe is under way. Relatively low levels of flat rolled product imports, if continued, are also expected to support improved order rates. Our Tubular operations are also continuing to experience favorable demand trends, most notably in alloy product at our welded operations in East Texas. At the same time, spot market prices are increasing across all of our segments in response to increased order rates and global raw material cost pressures. We continue to believe that the U.S. and global economies are in the early stages of a gradual recovery. While we are becoming more optimistic, primarily due to improvements we are starting to see in the manufacturing sector, we remain cautious in our outlook for end user demand. 80 Table of Contents Flat rolled results for first quarter 2010 are expected to improve from fourth quarter 2009. The benefits of increases in average realized prices and shipments, efficiencies from increased operating rates and reduced facility repair and maintenance costs are expected to be partially offset by the absence of approximately $55 million of favorable effects from LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Average realized prices are expected to increase from fourth quarter 2009 as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. Increases in our index based contract prices would be realized later as higher published market price assessments enter the index calculations for future periods. We are currently making steel at six of our seven North American steelmaking locations, with the exception being our Lake Erie Works, which represents approximately ten percent of our annual Flat rolled raw steel capability. We expect to complete maintenance work on our largest blast furnace, the #14 Blast Furnace at Gary Works, late in the first quarter and have all available capacity in operation at these six locations before the end of the quarter. Overall, raw steel capability utilization rates are expected to increase from the fourth quarter of 2009. First quarter 2010 results for USSE are expected to be comparable to fourth quarter 2009 as the benefits of increased shipments and operating efficiencies are expected to be offset by higher raw material costs. Euro based transaction prices are expected to be slightly higher than the fourth quarter as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to be lower due to foreign currency translation effects. We completed maintenance work on the #3 Blast Furnace at USSK in early February and we are currently operating all five of USSEs blast furnaces. We expect our Tubular operations to remain profitable in the first quarter. However, results are expected to decrease from the fourth quarter as the benefits of increased shipments are expected to be offset by increased costs as we continue to increase production to meet increased order rates, as well as the absence of $10 million of favorable fourth quarter items related to favorable effects of LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Seamless and welded tubular product prices are expected to improve throughout the quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to decrease as compared to the fourth quarter due to a higher proportion of welded tubular product shipments. We expect increased operating rates at all of our pipe facilities in the first quarter, most notably our welded pipe facility in East Texas. These expected increases should also benefit our Flat rolled operations that supply substrate requirements to our welded pipe facilities. Accounting Standards In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (FAS 167). FAS 167 is a revision to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, and amends the consolidation guidance for variable interest entities. Additionally, FAS 167 will require additional disclosures about involvement with variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure due to that involvement. FAS 167 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 167 will result in the deconsolidation of certain of our current variable interest entities, including, Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC due to the addition of the power criteria in paragraph 14 of FAS 167. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 810, Consolidations Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities, to incorporate FAS 167. In June 2009, the FASB issued FAS No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets (FAS 166). FAS 166 is a revision to FAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, and will require more information about transfer of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and enhanced disclosures when companies have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. Additionally, FAS 166 eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity. FAS 166 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 166 will result in any Receivables Purchase Agreement transactions being accounted for as secured borrowing transactions as of January 1, 2010. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, to incorporate FAS 166. See note 19 for further details of our accounts receivable facility. 81 Table of Contents Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage our market and exchange rate risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain commodity or currency transactions. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the transaction is settled. Once the transaction is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. For further information regarding derivative instruments see Notes 1 and 15 to the Financial Statements. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, through USSE and USSC, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the euro, the Serbian dinar and the Canadian dollar. U. S. Steel historically has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. U. S. Steel has not elected to use hedge accounting for these contracts. Foreign currency derivative instruments have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in net interest and other financial costs. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sales contracts for U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $185 million and $363 million, respectively). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2009 euro forward rates would result in a $19 million charge to income. The fair value of our derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs, which are defined as significant other observable inputs. The inputs used include quotes from counterparties that are corroborated with market sources. Future foreign currency impacts will depend upon changes in currencies, the extent to which we engage in derivatives transactions and the balance of the Intercompany Loan. The amount and timing of such borrowings or repayments on the Intercompany Loan will depend upon profits and cash flows of our international operations, future international investments and financing activities, all of which will be impacted by market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices and foreign exchange rates. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of our business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and zinc, tin and other nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for our products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel has made forward physical purchases to manage exposure to price risk related to the purchases of natural gas and certain non ferrous metals used in the production process. Historically, the forward physical purchase contracts for natural gas and nonferrous metals have qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 815. However, 82 Table of Contents due to reduced natural gas consumption in 2009, we net settled some of our excess natural gas purchase contracts for certain facilities. Therefore, the remaining contracts for natural gas at those facilities no longer met the exemption criteria and were therefore subject to mark to market accounting. As of December 31, 2009, there are no longer natural gas purchase contracts subject to mark to market accounting. Fixed price forward physical purchase contracts entered into for 2010 to partially manage our exposure to natural gas price risk qualify for the normal purchases normal sales exemption. The fair value of our natural gas derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs. The inputs used include forward prices derived from the New York Mercantile Exchange. A 10 percent decrease in natural gas prices for open derivative instruments as of December 31, 2009, would not result in a material charge to income. U. S. Steel held commodity contracts for natural gas that qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption with a total notional value of approximately $44 million at December 31, 2009. Total commodity contracts for natural gas represent approximately 12 percent of our expected North American natural gas requirements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of our non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent increase/decrease in year end 2009 and 2008 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase inFair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 26 $ 0 $ 23 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 4,004 $ 172 $ 2,650 $ 106 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008. (d) For additional information see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on the yield on our public debt where available or current borrowing rates available for financings with similar terms and maturities. For additional information see Note 16 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of our debt portfolio would unfavorably affect our results and cash flows only to the extent that we elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt included 200 million ($288 million) of borrowing under a floating rate revolving credit facility, the fair value of which is not affected by interest rate declines. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 83 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Remediation A significant portion of U. S. Steels currently identified environmental remediation projects relate to the remediation of former and present operating locations. A number of these locations were sold by U. S. Steel and are subject to cost sharing and remediation provisions in the sales agreements. Projects include remediation of the Grand Calumet River, remediation of the former Geneva Works and the former Duluth Works and the closure and remediation of permitted hazardous and non hazardous waste landfills. U. S. Steel is also involved in a number of remedial actions under CERCLA, RCRA and other federal and state statutes, particularly third party waste disposal sites where disposal of U. S. Steel generated material occurred and it is possible that additional sites will be identified that require remediation. For additional information regarding remedial actions, capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had approximately 24,000 employees in North America and approximately 19,000 in Europe. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) that expire in September 2012. The 2008 CBAs resulted in wage increases ranging from $0.65 to $1.00 per hour as of the effective date. Each subsequent September 1 thereafter during the contract term, employees will receive a four percent wage increase. The 2008 CBAs also require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance during the contract period. In early 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the 2009 contribution until 2012. The 2008 CBAs also provide for pension and other benefit enhancements for both current employees and retirees (see Notes 17 and 20 to the Financial Statements). A small number of workers at these facilities, as well as workers at our transportation operations are covered by agreements with the USW or other unions that have varying expiration dates. At USSC the collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Lake Erie Works has expired and a successor agreement has not been reached. The collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Hamilton Works expires in July 2010. All of the agreements in North America contain no strike clauses. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in March 2012. Represented employees at USSS are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in December 2012. Wage increases have been agreed to for all years for both USSE agreements. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. We post our annual report on Form 10 K, our quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, our proxy statement and our interactive data files to our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also post all press releases and earnings releases to our web site. 27 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles, our Code of Ethical Business Conduct and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation & Organization Committee and the Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 2998). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site or the documents referred to in the immediately preceeding paragraph into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income from operations by reportable segment and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 3 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary (Unaudited) on pages F 63 and F 64. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Current Global Recession All segments of our business have been impacted by the global recession and such impacts have created certain new risks and have also affected the other risks set forth below. U. S. Steel and its end product markets continue to be impacted by the global recession. For full year 2009, U. S. Steel reported a net loss of $1,401 million, or $10.42 per diluted share. Raw steel production in our North American Flat rolled segment averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 79 percent and 83 percent of cabability in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and our European USSE segment averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 86 percent and 92 percent of capability in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our Tubular segment shipped 657 thousand tons in 2009 as compared to 1.95 million tons in 2008. Despite some signs of economic recovery, we expect to report an overall operating loss for the first quarter of 2010. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which experienced substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels and this has led to a substantial decrease in oil and gas drilling activity, which has resulted in lower customer demand for the products of our Tubular segment. U. S. Steels operating levels will remain at depressed levels until our customers demand increases. In addition to reduced demand in our end product markets, we believe that some of our customers are experiencing difficulty in obtaining credit or maintaining their ability to qualify for trade credit insurance, resulting in a further reduction in purchases and an increase in our credit risk exposure. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. In addition, the expiration of governmental stimulus programs may have a negative impact on the levels of customer demand. In response to the global recession, we announced that we had substantially reduced our planned capital expenditures for 2009 to conserve liquidity. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long 28 Table of Contents term strategic importance, as we focused on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Unless the current economic situation continues to improve, we may have to delay investments of long term strategic importance. It could also become more expensive to complete these deferred investments at a later date. Moreover, delaying these long term strategic investments could have a negative impact on our cost structure and market position. U. S. Steel is incurring and will continue to incur facility carrying costs when production capacity is temporarily idled and increased costs as we resume production at idled facilities. During 2009, U. S. Steel temporarily idled significant production facilities in all three of our segments in response to economic conditions and customer demand. We continue to incur certain facility carrying costs which could not be eliminated even though the facilities were idled, resulting in higher unit production costs for all three segments. For example, during 2009 in our North American Flat rolled and Tubular segments, we incurred approximately $735 million and $80 million of idled facility costs, respectively. Furthermore, we transferred raw materials to operating locations, and delayed discretionary repair and maintenance and other expenditures while facilities were temporarily idled to minimize costs and preserve liquidity during the idling period. As we restart facilities, we are incurring increased costs to replenish raw material inventories, prepare the previously idled facilities for operation, perform the required repair and maintenance, complete capital projects and prepare employees to safely return to work and resume production responsibilities. U. S. Steel may need to substantially increase working capital when market conditions and order levels improve. As our business deteriorated, we reduced working capital by $1.3 billion in 2009. When market conditions and order levels improve we may have to increase our working capital substantially, as it will take several months for new orders to be translated into cash receipts. In general, availability under our 2007 five year $750 million revolving credit facility, which was amended and restated in 2009, (Amended Credit Agreement) is limited to a monthly borrowing base of certain eligible domestic inventory and availability under our Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) is limited to eligible receivables. We may not have sufficient eligible inventory and receivables to borrow the amounts we need. U. S. Steel may face increased risks of customer and supplier defaults. There is an increased risk of insolvency and other credit related issues of our customers and suppliers, including their need to increase working capital as their businesses improve. We believe some of our customers and suppliers may not have sufficient credit available to them, which could delay payments from customers, result in increased customer defaults and cause our suppliers to delay filling, or to be unable to fill, our needs. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity investees are also being affected by the current global recession. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity affiliates are also engaged in the production of steelmaking raw materials and finishing of flat rolled and tubular products. As such they face many of the same issues we do. Since these entities are smaller than U. S. Steel, they may have fewer resources available to them to respond to the current global recession. Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is highly cyclical, and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow, especially during periods of economic weakness. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in regional markets. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess global supply, which has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. 29 Table of Contents Rapidly growing supply in China and other developing economies may grow faster than real demand in those economies, which may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years, steel consumption in China and other developing economies has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by rapidly increasing steel production capability in those countries and published reports state that further capacity increases are likely. Steel production, especially in China, has expanded rapidly and appears to be well in excess of Chinas home market demand. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any excess Chinese supply could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if this excess and subsidized production is exported to other markets. Since the Chinese steel industry is largely government owned, it has not been as adversely impacted by the current global recession, and it can make production and sales decisions for non market reasons. Increased imports of steel products into North America and Europe could negatively affect steel prices and demand levels and reduce our profitability. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 22 percent of the domestic steel market in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 22 percent in 2007. Foreign competitors may have lower labor costs, and some are owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Imports of tubular products to the United States increased significantly beginning in 2008. Oil country tubular goods (OCTG) imports accounted for a large share of the growth, as they have more than doubled over 2007 levels. Imports of OCTG from China registered the most dramatic increase as they grew from 900 thousand tons in 2007 to nearly 2.3 million tons in 2008. The U.S. market experienced a surge in tubular imports in the second half of 2008 that resulted in record OCTG inventories by the end of the year, which affected demand in 2009 and is continuing to affect demand in 2010. Chinese imports of seamless standard line and pressure pipe increased by more than 290 percent in the three months after the filing of antidumping and counterveiling duty petitions in September 2009, as compared to the three months prior to the filing. Imports of flat rolled steel to Canada accounted for an estimated 35 percent of the Canadian market for flat rolled steel products in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 27 percent in 2007. Total imports of flat rolled carbon steel products to the EU27 (the 27 countries currently comprising the European Union (EU)) were 15 percent of the EU market in 2009, 19 percent in 2008 and 17 percent in 2007. Increases in future levels of imported steel to North America and Europe could reduce future market prices and demand levels for steel products produced in those markets. Imports into the United States, Canada and the EU have often violated the international trade laws of these jurisdictions. While in some cases U. S. Steel and others have been successful in obtaining relief under these laws, in other circumstances relief has not been received. When received, such relief is generally subject to automatic or discretionary recision or reduction. There can be no assurance that any such relief will be obtained or continued in the future or that such relief as obtained will be adequate. Limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in obtaining sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner due to delays or defaults by suppliers, shortages or transportation problems (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or disruption of rail lines, waterways or natural gas transmission lines), resulting in production curtailments. We do not produce enough coke to meet our global requirements and our coke production capability is likely to decline over the next several years given that some of our existing coke batteries in the United States are approaching the end of their useful lives. As a result, we may be further exposed to risks concerning pricing and availability of coke from third parties. USSE is dependent upon availability of natural gas produced in Russia and transported through Ukraine. USSE experienced natural gas supply curtailments during Russias suspension of natural gas shipments to Europe in January 2009. Resulting steel production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins, and any future curtailments and escalated costs may reduce profit margins. 30 Table of Contents Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Steel producers in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the EU, Canada and Japan are generally comparable to U.S. standards, other nations, particularly China, have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Greenhouse gas policies could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create carbon dioxide (CO2). This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States has passed a bill in the House of Representatives and a bill has been introduced in the Senate. For a discussion of these, see PART I Business Environmental Matters. We cannot predict the final requirements that may be adopted in the United States and Canada, or the form of future actions that may be taken by the EU; however, such limitations could entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources, which could have a negative effect on results of operations and cash flows. Since mini mill production does not involve the same chemical reactions as integrated production, mini mills may have a competitive advantage. Also, since China and many other developing nations have not instituted greenhouse gas regulations, and since past international agreements such as the Kyoto Protocol provided exemptions and lesser standards for developing nations, we may also be at a competitive disadvantage with certain foreign steel producers. Many of our customers in the United States, Canada and Europe may experience similar impacts, which could result in decreased demand for our products. Risk Factors Concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Our retiree health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, and our pension plan costs in North America are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans covering most of our North American employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 129,000 current employees, retirees and beneficiaries are participating in the plans to receive pension and or medical benefits. At December 31, 2009, on an accounting basis, U. S. Steels retiree medical and life insurance plans were underfunded $2.9 billion and our pension plans were underfunded by $1.7 billion. Most of our employee benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Minimum contributions to domestic qualified pension plans are controlled under ERISA and other government regulations. Minimum contributions to U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) pension plans are governed by an agreement entered into by Stelco Inc. (Stelco) and the Province of Ontario that U. S. Steel assumed in conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco. This agreement requires defined annual contributions until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. Substantial cash contributions may be required to fund these benefit plans. U. S. Steel contributes to a multiemployer plan in the United States covering pensions for USW represented workers formerly employed by National Steel and workers hired after May 2003. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of this plan, which may have a negative effect on our cash flows. The collective 31 Table of Contents bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) increased our required contributions to this plan from $1.80 to $2.65 per hour. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of this plan. Total costs for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $420 million in 2010, a decrease of $40 million from 2009, while cash contributions for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $570 million in 2010, exclusive of any voluntary contributions we might choose to make. The turmoil in financial markets during 2008 has led to significant declines in the value of equity investments that are held by the trusts under our pension plans and the trust to pay for retiree health care and life insurance benefits. While some of these losses were recovered in 2009, the 2008 losses have contributed to the underfunded position at December 31, 2009. We may be required or may choose to make substantial contributions to these plans. Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and pension plans, and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Benefit obligations under our plans are not tied to operating rates; therefore, our costs are not expected to decline as a result of the global recession or any other future economic downturns. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our results of operations and cash flows. U. S. Steel is involved in numerous remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to unrelated parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. For example, we recorded a charge of $49 million in 2009 in connection with the expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works bringing the total liability for this site to $66 million as of December 31, 2009. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Many U.S. competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Competitors that have obtained relief under bankruptcy laws may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors Applicable to U. S. Steel Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to equipment failures at our facilities or those of our key suppliers. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Production at USSE was curtailed in January 2009 due to the suspension of natural gas deliveries to Europe from Russia transported through Ukraine and we remain vulnerable to this risk. Availability of raw materials and delivery of products to customers could be affected by logistical disruptions (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or unavailability of rail lines or of locks on the Great Lakes or other bodies of water). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by volatility in prices for raw materials, energy, and steel. Approximately 60 percent of U. S. Steels Flat rolled segment sales in the United States are based on sales contracts with volume commitments and durations of at least one quarter, while lesser percentages of Tubular and USSE segment sales are made pursuant to such contacts. These contracts generally have a fixed price or a price 32 Table of Contents that will fluctuate with changes in a defined index and do not always have firm volume commitments. During periods of rapid escalation of raw materials, energy and other costs such as was experienced in 2008, U. S. Steel may not be able to recover these cost increases from customers with existing fixed price agreements. Conversely, some purchase contracts require annual commitments and in periods of rapid decline, such as 2009, U. S. Steel may be faced with having agreed to purchase raw materials and energy at prices that are above the then current market price or in greater volumes than required. If steel prices decline, our profit margins on market based indexed contracts and spot business will be reduced. Declines in the production levels of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which reported substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels, leading to a reduction in oil and gas exploration and development, which in turn has resulted in lower customer demand for our Tubular segment. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. The terms of our indebtedness contain provisions that may limit our flexibility. The Amended Credit Agreement is now secured by a lien on a majority of our domestic inventory and certain of our accounts receivable and includes a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant that applies when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than $112.5 million. Because the Amended Credit Agreement was undrawn throughout 2009, this covenant was not applicable, but based on the four quarters ended December 31, 2009, we would not have met this covenant. The value or levels of inventory may decrease or we may not be able to meet this covenant in the future, and either or both of these situations would limit our ability to borrow under the Amended Credit Agreement. We also amended our $500 million RPA, which among other things increased pricing, reserve factors and percentages; changed the definition of Eligible Receivables, which resulted in an increase in the amount of our receivables ineligible for purchase; and added a change of control provision. Reductions in accounts receivable would limit our ability to sell receivables. In general, availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is limited to a monthly borrowing base for certain eligible domestic inventory. Further inventory reductions could limit availability to less than the potential $750 million. If availability under the Amended Credit Agreement falls below the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million, we would also be subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. This may be a particular problem when market conditions and order levels improve and U. S. Steel needs the liquidity to rebuild working capital. We have granted the lenders under the Amended Credit Agreement a secured position in our most liquid assets, which may be a detriment to other creditors. The Amended Credit Agreement, our Senior Convertible Notes issued in 2009 and our $1.6 billion of Senior Notes issued in 2007 also contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks. Additionally, the repayment of amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and repurchase of the Senior Convertible Notes and Senior Notes is required upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. The Amended Credit Agreement, the Senior Convertible Notes and the RPA have provisions that certain defaults under a material debt obligation could cause a default under the Amended Credit Agreement or the Senior Convertible Notes or termination of the RPA. These terms may affect our liquidity, our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. All three major ratings agencies have downgraded the ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt in the last year. This has caused increases in borrowing costs under our credit facilities. We have been required to and may be forced to provide additional collateral or financial assurance for environmental closure and other presently unsecured obligations. These and any future downgrades in our credit ratings may make raising capital more difficult, may increase the cost and affect the terms of future borrowings, may affect the terms under which we purchase goods and services and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 33 Table of Contents Change in control clauses in our financial and labor agreements grant the other parties to those agreements rights to accelerate obligations and to terminate or extend our labor agreements. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, Amended Credit Agreement, Senior Convertible Notes and various other contracts and leases, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately repurchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. Additionally, the 2008 CBAs give the USW the right to either terminate or extend the collective bargaining agreements for an additional four years. A change of control is generally defined to include any of the following: (a) the acquisition by a person or group of at least 35 percent of our common stock, (b) a merger in which holders of our common stock own less than a majority of the equity in the resulting entity, or (c) replacement of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors by persons who were not nominated by our current directors. Our operations expose us to uncertainties and risks in the countries in which we operate, which could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our U.S. operations are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the United States, which if changed could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, increased regulation, limitations on exports of energy and raw materials, and trade remedies. Actions taken by the U.S. government could affect our results of operations and cash flow. For example, certain health care reform proposals could increase the cost of our health insurance plans for active employees and retirees and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. USSK, located in Slovakia, USSS, located in Serbia, and USSC, located in Canada, constitute 39 percent of our global raw steel production capability. All of them are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the countries in which they are located, and USSK is additionally subject to economic conditions and political factors associated with the EU and the euro currency. Changes in any of these economic conditions or political factors could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, government instability, civil unrest, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. Any future foreign acquisitions could expose us to similar risks. We are subject to significant foreign currency risks, which could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. Our foreign operations accounted for approximately 30 percent of our net sales in 2009. The financial condition and results of operations of USSK, USSS and USSC are reported in various foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. The appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. In addition, the acquisition of USSC was funded from the United States, as well as through the reinvestment of undistributed foreign earnings from USSE, creating intercompany monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities involved, which can have a non cash impact on income when they are remeasured at the end of each quarter. An $892 million U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary was the primary exposure at December 31, 2009. Any future foreign acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Our business requires substantial expenditures for debt service, obligations, capital investment, operating leases and maintenance that we may be unable to fund. With $3,364 million of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2009, we have significant debt service requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2009, total capital expenditures were $3.3 billion. At December 31, 2009, our contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $152 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $173 million under operating leases. 34 Table of Contents In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, steelmaking and steel finishing facilities. As of December 31, 2009, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $173 million, operating lease obligations of approximately $26 million that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, and unconditional purchase obligations, including take or pay arrangements, totalling approximately $11.5 billion. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient, to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. The limitations under our Amended Credit Agreement and RPA, described above, may limit our availability to draw upon these facilities. We intend indefinitely to reinvest undistributed foreign earnings outside the United States; however, if we need to repatriate funds in the future to satisfy our liquidity needs, the tax consequences would reduce income and cash flow. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. Our insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insured retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by the 2008 CBAs, which expire in September 2012. These agreements contain provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USW, grant the USW a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the 2008 CBAs, require us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities and require mandatory pre funding of a trust for retiree health care and life insurance. These agreements also restrict our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further require that the ratio of non USW employees to USW employees at our domestic facilities not exceed one to five. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USW, some foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. We are at risk of labor stoppages. The collective bargaining agreement covering the Lake Erie Works expired in July 2009 and there has been a work stoppage since that time. The collective bargaining agreement at the Hamilton Works expires in July 2010, and we may not enter into a successor agreement prior to that time. There are risks associated with past acquisitions, as well as any acquisitions we may make in the future. Our acquisitions of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) and Stelco created goodwill on our balance sheet which totaled $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, and which exposes us to the risk of future impairment charges. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007 and our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined based on consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or compound annual growth rate, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. The assumptions used will have a large impact on the conclusions reached in future tests. As of 35 Table of Contents December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively. The Lone Star acquisition increased our tubular production capacity by more than 50 percent and the Stelco acquisition increased our North American steelmaking capability by 25 percent, thereby increasing our exposure to cyclical downturns in historically cyclical industries such as oil and gas, service center, conversion, automotive, construction and appliance. The success of any future acquisitions will depend substantially on the accuracy of our analysis concerning such businesses and our ability to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, to finance such acquisitions and to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Our acquisitions in 2007 involved purchase prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our acquisitions in 2003. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations and countries. Antitrust and similar laws in foreign jurisdictions may prevent us from completing acquisitions. There are risks associated with existing and potential tax law and accounting requirements. In accordance with ASC Topic 740, we have not recognized a tax benefit for pre tax losses in jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance for accounting purposes. As a result, the pre tax losses associated with USSS and USSC do not provide any tax benefit for accounting purposes. Significant changes in the mix of pre tax results among the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material impact on our effective tax rate. President Obamas administration has proposed significant changes to U.S. tax law. Some of the proposed changes, such as the repeal of the last in first out (LIFO) inventory cost method, could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow if they are enacted. We may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow in a particular period. Our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. For information regarding our current significant legal proceedings, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. We may suffer employment losses, which could negatively affect our future performance. Approximately 570 of U. S. Steels North American based non represented employees retired in 2009 as part of a voluntary early retirement program and a significant number of those remaining are or will be eligible for retirement over the next several years. 36 Table of Contents Over the last few years we had intensified our recruitment, training and retention efforts so that we may continue to optimally staff our operations, but we instituted a freeze on hiring in early 2009 in response to the global economic recession. If we are unable to hire sufficient qualified replacements for those leaving, our future performance may be adversely impacted. With respect to our represented employees, we may be adversely impacted by the loss of employees who retired or obtained other employment during the time they were laid off or subject to a work stoppage such as currently exists at Lake Erie Works. The cost reduction actions taken in 2009 increased the number of personnel and organization changes and may increase the risk of internal control failures. We may experience difficulties implementing our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. We are currently implementing an ERP system to help us operate more efficiently. This is a complex project, which is expected to be implemented in several phases over the next several years. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP program without experiencing difficulties. In addition, the expected benefits of implementing the ERP system may not be realized or the costs of implementation may outweigh the realized benefits. We extended the implementation schedule in early 2009 to reduce near term costs. This action will delay the realization of benefits from this project and may add to final project costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following tables list U. S. Steels main properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Slabs; Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Plant Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Slabs; Sheets; Coke Lake Erie Works Nanticoke, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke Hamilton Works Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke; Bars Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Slabs; Rounds; Sheets; Seamless Tubular USS POSCO Industries(a) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin mill PRO TEC Coating Company(a) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(a) Dearborn, Michigan Galvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(a) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(a) Jackson, Canton and Taylor, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(a) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(a) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(a) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Baycoat Limited Partnership(a) Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Steel processing D.C. Chrome Limited(a) Stony Creek, Ontario, Canada Roll processing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Seamless Tubular Texas Operations Lone Star, Texas Welded Tubular Bellville Operations Bellville, Texas Welded Tubular Wheeling Machine Products Pine Bluff, Arkansas and Hughes Springs and Houston, Texas Tubular couplings Tubular Processing Services Houston, Texas Tubular processing Tubular Threading and Inspection Services Houston, Texas Tubular threading, inspection and storage services Fintube Technologies, Inc. Tulsa, Oklahoma and Monterrey, Mexico Specialty Welded Tubular United Spiral Pipe, LLC(a) Pittsburg, California Spiral Welded Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Hibbing Taconite Company(a) Hibbing, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Tilden Mining Company(a) Ishpeming, Michigan Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas Transportation services (railroad and barge operations) (a) Equity investee 38 Table of Contents Other Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Koice Koice, Slovakia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Tubular; Coke; Radiators;Refractories U. S. Steel Serbia Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Limestone Apolo Tubulars S.A.(a) Lorena, Sao Paulo, Brazil Welded Tubular (a) Equity investee U. S. Steel and its predecessors (including Lone Star) have owned their properties for many years with no material adverse claims asserted. In the case of Great Lakes Works, Granite City Works, the Midwest Plant and Keetac iron ore operations acquired from National Steel in 2003; the Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia operations acquired by U. S. Steel in 2003; and the Lake Erie Works and Hamilton Works of U. S. Steel Canada acquired in 2007; U. S. Steel or its subsidiaries are the beneficiaries of bankruptcy laws and orders providing that properties are held free and clear of past liabilities. In addition, U. S. Steel or its predecessors obtained title insurance, local counsel opinions or similar protections when the major properties were initially acquired. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease. The final lease payment is due in December 2012 and the lease term expires in June 2013, subject to additional extensions. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. At the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has a supply agreement for various utility services with a company which owns a cogeneration facility located on U. S. Steel property. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. General Litigation In March 2008, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed a previous decision of the Indiana Utilitites Regulatory Commission involving a rate escalation provision in U. S. Steels electric power supply contract with Northern Indiana Public Service Company and a reserve of $45 million related to prior year effects was established in the first quarter of 2008. In June 2009, the Indiana Supreme Court overruled the Court of Appeals, and we reversed the reserve related to this litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel is vigorously defending these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. 39 Table of Contents On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. Asbestos Litigation As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active cases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. At December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 450 active cases involving approximately 3,050 plaintiffs. During 2009, settlements and dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 200 claims and U. S. Steel paid approximately $7 million in settlements. New filings added approximately 190 claims. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. Most of the claims filed in 2009, 2008 and 2007 involve individual or small groups of claimants. Historically, these claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); (2) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel; and (3) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of former operations of U. S. Steel. In general, the only insurance available to U. S. Steel with respect to asbestos claims is excess casualty insurance, which has multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has received minimal payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 210 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or our products or premises; however, with the decline in mass plaintiff cases the incidence of claimants actually alleging a claim against U. S. Steel is increasing. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or our products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing our potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any 40 Table of Contents claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where we believe litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. The following table shows activity with respect to asbestos litigation: Year ended December 31, OpeningNumber ofClaims ClaimsDismissed,Settled andResolved New Claims Closing Numberof Claims Amounts Paid toResolve Claims(in millions) 2007 3,700 1,230 530 3,000 $ 9 2008 3,000 400 450 3,050 $ 13 2009 3,050 200 190 3,040 $ 7 The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. The vast majority of pending claims against us allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. In most cases, the claimant also was exposed to asbestos in non U. S. Steel settings; the relative periods of exposure between U. S. Steel and non U. S. Steel settings vary with each claimant; and the strength or weakness of the causal link between U. S. Steel exposure and any injury vary widely. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, although the resolution of such matters could significantly impact results of operations for a particular quarter. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has declined; (2) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (3) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2009, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the 41 Table of Contents ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of, environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 31 CERCLA sites where liability is not resolved. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs will be between $1 million and $5 million for 3 of these sites, will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site for 8 of these sites, and will be under $100,000 per site for 9 of these sites. At 2 other sites, management estimates U. S. Steels share in the future cleanup costs to be $32 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. One site is known as the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pennsylvania. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation, which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel has completed the remedial design for this site and it is being reviewed by PADEP. The other site is the former Duluth Works, which was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River Interlake Duluth Tar site on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel has prepared a conceptual habitat enhancement plan (HEP) that includes measures to address contaminated sediments in the St. Louis River Estuary. MPCA (on behalf of EPA) has completed its second five year review for the site. As a result, additional data collection will be required to address data gaps identified in the five year review and corrective measures will be required to address the recently discovered areas of contamination on the upland property. Study, investigation and oversight costs along with implementation of corrective measures on the upland property and implementation of the HEP are currently estimated at $26 million. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 45 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 12 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 18 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 8 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million per site. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $5 million per site at 4 sites and in excess of $10 million per site at 1 sites. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining three sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by the EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. As of December 31, 2009, project costs have amounted to $60 million. U. S. Steel completed additional dredging in 2007, and submitted a Dredge Completion Report to EPA in May 2008. Although further dredging is not expected, $1.0 million is accrued for possible additional work that 42 Table of Contents may be required to complete the project and obtain EPA approval. The Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) which received dredged materials from the Grand Calumet River could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to an Administrative Order on Consent (1998) for corrective action. CAMU maintenance and wastewater treatment costs are anticipated to be an additional $872,000 through December 2011. In 1998, U. S. Steel also entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel, following EPA approval of the Dredge Completion Report, will pay the public trustees $1.0 million for ecological monitoring costs. In addition, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $835,000. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects based on the estimated remaining costs was $3.7 million at December 31, 2009. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites: D5, along with an adjacent solid waste disposal unit, Terminal Treatment Plant (TTP) Area; T2; and D2 combined with a portion of the Refuse Area, where a solid waste disposal unit overlaps with the hazardous waste disposal unit. The sites are located on plant property. U. S. Steel has submitted a closure plan to the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) for D2 and the known tar areas of the Refuse Area. U. S. Steel has proposed that the remainder of the Refuse Area be addressed as a Solid Waste Management Unit (SWMU) under corrective action. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a revised closure plan for T2 and separate closure plans for D5 and the TTP Area. IDEM approved the closure plans for D5 and T2 on October 15, 2009 and December 1, 2009 respectively. Implementation of both plans is expected to begin in 2010. The related accrued liability for estimated costs to close each of the hazardous waste sites and perform groundwater monitoring prior to closure is $5.8 million for D5 and TTP, $3.1 million for T2 and $10.9 million for D2 including a portion of the Refuse Area, as of December 31, 2009. On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for SWMUs throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI), a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) and Corrective Measure Implementation at Gary Works. Reports of field investigation findings for Phase I work plans have been submitted to EPA. Four self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had spent approximately $31.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval for a perimeter groundwater monitoring plan and is developing a proposal for a corrective measure to address impacted sediments in the West Grand Calumet Lagoon. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a sampling and analysis plan for the Solid Waste Management Areas east of the Vessel Slip Turning Basin, and a portion of the sediments behind the East Breakwall. U. S. Steel has begun operation of a full scale groundwater treatment system approved by EPA as a Self Implementing Stabilization Measure to address benzene impacted groundwater east of the vessel slip, and continues to operate a seasonal groundwater treatment system near the coke plant. The costs for the above mentioned activities are estimated to be $15.1 million. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval to implement corrective measures necessary to address soil contamination at Gary Works. U. S. Steel estimates the minimum cost of the corrective measures for soil contamination to be approximately $3.5 million. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $6.1 million. Until the remaining Phase I work and Phase II field investigations are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary for Corrective Action projects at Gary Works. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects was $24.7 million as of December 31, 2009, based on the estimated remaining costs. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by IDEM, acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court and thereafter became effective April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel has paid our entire share of the assessment costs and the restoration costs to the public trustees. On November 26, 2007, IDEM issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) alleging three pushing violations and one door violation on the No. 2 Battery that were to have occurred on July 11, 2007. On December 20, 2007, IDEM made a verbal penalty demand of $123,000 to resolve these alleged violations. U. S. Steel provided written responses to the NOVs. Negotiations regarding these NOVs are ongoing. 43 Table of Contents On October 3, 2007, November 26, 2007, March 2, 2008 and March 18, 2008, IDEM issued NOVs alleging opacity limitation violations from the coke plant and Blast Furnaces Nos. 4 and 8. To date, no penalty demand has been made by IDEM regarding these NOVs. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating resolution of these NOVs with IDEM. On July 3, 2008, EPA Region V issued a Notice of Violation/Finding of Violation (NOV/FOV) alleging violations resulting from a multi media inspection conducted in May 2007 and subsequent information collection requests pursuant to Section 114 of the Clean Air Act. These alleged violations include those currently being prosecuted by IDEM that are identified above. Other alleged violations include the reline of No. 4 Blast Furnace in 1990 without a New Source Review/Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit, and opacity limit excursions from hot iron transfer cars, slag skimming, slag pits, and the blast furnace casting house. The NOV/FOV also alleges violations relating to hydrochloric acid pickling, blast furnace relief valves and blast furnace flares. While a penalty demand is expected, EPA Region V has not yet made such a demand. Since issuing the NOV/FOV, EPA Region V has issued additional Section 114 information requests to Gary Works. U. S. Steel has responded to the requests and is currently negotiating resolution of the NOV/FOV and other request issues with EPA Region V and IDEM. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice On February 18, 2009, U. S. Steel received a letter from IDEM alleging that Gary Works was culpable for an ambient air quality exceedance for PM10 at the IITRI Monitoring Site. U. S. Steel responded to the letter on March 13, 2009. U. S. Steel met with IDEM on April 28, 2009 to resolve the issue. If Gary Works is determined to be culpable, U. S. Steel may be required to install and maintain two additional on site PM10 monitoring stations per the December 2006 Air Agreed Order. U. S. Steel continues to discuss the matter with IDEM. On April 13, 2009, Gary Works received a Notice of Violation from EPA Region 5 for alleged violations for New Source Review for reline of No. 13/14 during 2004 2005. U. S. Steel continues to meet with IDEM and EPA to negotiate resolution of the NOV. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. On August 20, 2009. Gary Works received an NOV and proposed Order alleging that Gary Works violated its NOx Trading Budget Allocations in 2006 ozone season. IDEM orginally proposed a penalty of $87,500. Because Gary Works corrected the error from its own allocations and no excess emissions occurred as a result of the NOx accounting error, IDEM agreed to reduce the penalty to $35,000. U. S. Steel verbally agreed to the reduced penalty and is currently drafting an Agreed Order with IDEM. Mon Valley Works On March 17, 2008, U. S. Steel entered a Consent Order and Agreement (COA) with the Allegheny County Health Department (ACHD) to resolve alleged opacity limitation and pushing and traveling violations from older coke oven batteries at its Clairton Plant and to resolve alleged opacity violations from its Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA required U. S. Steel to pay a civil penalty of $301,800 to resolve past alleged violations addressed by the COA. U. S. Steel paid the civil penalty on March 25, 2008. The COA requires U. S. Steel to conduct interim repairs on existing batteries and make improvements at the Ladle Metallurgical Facility and Steelmaking Shop at the Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA also requires that Batteries 7, 8 and 9 be shutdown by January 24, 2013 and Batteries 1, 2 and 3 be shutdown by August 11, 2015. Batteries 7 through 9 were shutdown in April 2009. We are repairing existing Batteries 19 and 20 and we continue to evaluate plans to construct new coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. U. S. Steel is also making upgrades at its Edgar Thomson Plant that would reduce emissions. On September 3, 2009, U. S. Steel Mon Valley Clairton Works incurred a catastrophic failure of its Desulfurization Plant. Because of this event, the Clairton, Edgar Thomson, and Irvin plants have exceeded their sulfur limit for air emissions when burning coke oven gas. The Desulfurization Plant was inoperable from September 3, 2009 through the remainder of 2009. U. S. Steel has provided the regulatory agencies with reports and updates. While no NOV has been issued to date, the Allegheny County Health Department has verbally indicated that it intends to issue a violation notice regarding the inability to desulfuirze the coke oven gas to meet the sulfur loading limits. On October 8, 2009, Mon Valley Clairton Works received a NOV from ACHD alleging that Clairton Works was culpable for hydrogen sulfide (H2S) Pennsylvania ambient air quality standard exceedances. The NOV requires U. S. Steel to submit a plan with milestones to reduce and minimize fugitive emissions of coke oven gas from the coke producing operations at Clairton including identification of coke oven gas emission sources and method of improved emission prevention and control. While U. S. Steel appealed the NOV on October 16, 2009, U. S. Steel 44 Table of Contents submitted an Action Plan to ACHD that was required by the NOV. U. S. Steel and ACHD have performed H2S modeling and are in the process of evaluating all potential sources of H2S in the area. U. S. Steel and ACHD continue to meet and discuss resolution. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a SWMU (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After the acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel has submitted a Closure Plan to IDEM recommending consolidation and in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.0 million and was recorded as an accrued liability as of December 31, 2009. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform an RFI and a CMS at our Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $617,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997. In accordance with the consent decree, U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two supplemental environmental projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the Fairfield Works facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) with the approval of EPA assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works. ADEM is currently reviewing the Phase II RFI work plan. The remaining cost to develop and implement the Phase II RFI work plan is estimated to be $787,000. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc., whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $210,000. In 2006, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of Upper Opossum Creek at a cost of $2.95 million, with a remaining contingency of $18,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. In 2007, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of approximately two acres of land at the former Ensley coke plant. As of December 31, 2009, costs to complete the remediation of this area have amounted to $1.3 million. An additional $49,000 remains accrued for project contingencies at Ensley with an additional $65,000 accrued for the contiguous properties. In total, the accrued liability for the projects described above was $1.0 million as of December 31, 2009, based on estimated remaining costs. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Lorain Tubular Operations In September 2006, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) inviting U. S. Steel to enter into discussions about RCRA Corrective Action at Lorain Tubular Operations. Those discussions resulted in the identification of ten SWMUs and three Areas of Concern (AOC) requiring further investigation and evaluation. In addition, U. S. Steel notified Ohio EPA in August 2009 of an additional SWMU based upon its field observations and a preliminary assessment. Currently, U. S. Steel is implementing a Phase I RFI on the identified SWMUs and AOCs. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has spent $223,000 on studies at 45 Table of Contents this site. Costs to complete additional studies are estimated to be $547,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Great Lakes Works On January 6, 2006, U. S. Steel received a proposed administrative consent order from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the Great Lakes Works facility. On February 13, 2007, MDEQ and U. S. Steel agreed to a revised Administrative Consent Order that resolves this matter. As required by the Administrative Consent Order, U. S. Steel has paid a civil penalty of $300,000 and has reimbursed MDEQ $50,000 in costs. The Order identifies certain compliance actions that address the alleged violations. U. S. Steel has completed work on most of these compliance actions, and has initiated work on the others. One of the compliance actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has completed the corrective measure necessary to remove historical basin sediments from these areas. As of December 31, 2009, $1.8 million had been spent on the project. In addition, $161,000 remains accrued for possible additional requirements to obtain MDEQ approval. Another compliance action includes modifications to the Cold Mill Wastewater Treatment Plant where U. S. Steel has agreed to rehabilitate four clarifiers and two wastewater conveyance pipelines, upgrade the computer control system and evaluate other potential improvements of this system. The vast majority of the elements of this project have been completed at a cost of $8.8 million and U. S. Steel anticipates spending an additional $110,000 most of which will be capitalized. Costs to complete the few remaining compliance actions are presently not determinable. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Great Lakes Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Great Lakes Works violated casthouse roof monitor and baghouse opacity limits; slag pit opacity limits; Basic Oxygen Process roof monitor opacity limits; and certain permit recordkeeping and parametric monitoring requirements. Great Lakes Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the DOJ. Granite City Works U. S. Steel received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004, for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop at our Granite City Works facility. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occurs when coke is pushed out of the ovens, for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. In December 2006, IEPA added to its complaint by adding a release of coke oven gas in February 2006. In October 2007, the Court entered a Second Supplemental Complaint in which IEPA added alleged violations regarding excessive opacity emissions from the blast furnace, and incorrect sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission factors regarding blast furnace gas emissions. On December 18, 2007, U. S. Steel entered into a Consent Order with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA that resolved the Complaint, as supplemented. The Order required that U. S. Steel: (1) pay a penalty of $300,000, which U. S. Steel paid on January 10, 2008; (2) demonstrate compliance with Coke Oven Pushing Operations in accordance with the compliance schedule provided in the Order; (3) comply with the basic oxygen furnace (BOF) opacity emissions in accordance with the schedule provided in the Order; and (4) submit to IEPA a revised permit application with the correct SO2 emission factors, which U. S. Steel submitted in January 2008. On September 30, 2008, U. S. Steel submitted a revised BOF Compliance Schedule and requested to modify the Order consistent with the revised BOF Compliance Schedule. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating with IEPA and the Illinois Attorney General as to what upgrades at the BOF will precede the compliance demonstration. U. S. Steel met with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA on June 11, 2009 to discuss the BOF Compliance Plan and Schedule. While the meeting was productive, the compliance demonstration deadline for the BOF remains indefinitely postponed by agreement of the parties. At Granite City Works, U. S. Steel and Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway), a subsidiary of SunCoke Energy, Inc., have agreed with two environmental advocacy groups to establish an Environmental Trust 46 Table of Contents Fund (Trust), which requires the permittees (U. S. Steel and Gateway) to collectively deposit $1.0 million by September 30th of each year, beginning September 30, 2008 and ending September 30, 2012. U. S. Steel contributed $500,000 to the Trust on September 30, 2008, which amounted to its share of the required 2008 deposit. On September 30, 2009, U. S. Steel contributed an additional $500,000 to the Trust pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. As grantors, U. S. Steel and Gateway have established the Trust as a part of the cost to construct a heat recovery coke plant adjacent to Granite City Works. The capital contribution and all net income of the Trust are to be used for the purposes of promoting energy efficiency, greenhouse gas reductions and PM2.5 emission reduction, to be implemented in the local community where Granite City Works is located. The Trust can be used for projects at public buildings or property owned by the city, local schools, parks and library districts. On February 2, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging approximately 16 separate violations. Specifically, IEPA alleged that Granite City Works: inappropriately charged a battery while off the collecting mains because of (1) damaged coke guides on one occasion and (2) derailment of the pushing control system on two occasions; failed to perform some monthly and quarterly inspections required by Iron & Steel Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards or Coke MACT standards; failed to initiate repairs within 30 days after recording that the baffles on the quench tower were damaged on the monthly inspection report; failed to adequately wash the baffles on the quench tower per the MACT standard; inappropriately used the emergency pour station at the BOP during routine, non emergency maintenance; failed to sufficiently apply a wetting agent to the slag from BF A to minimize fugitive emissions while loading trucks and failed to update and properly implement its Fugitive Dust Program. U. S. Steel provided a written response to IEPA on March 18, 2009 and met with IEPA on April 8, 2009 to resolve the issues identified in the NOV. U. S. Steel supplemented its response on April 29, 2009. IEPA has not made any penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. On March 17, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging the following at Granite City Works: door leaks from B Battery; volatile organic compounds from pressure relief valves from gas blanketing tank; coke by products process unit and information (lacking); failure to report retagging project for benzene in service equipment; and failure to maintain records for benzene in service equipment repairs. U. S. Steel responded to the NOV on May 8, 2009, and met with IEPA regarding the issues identified in the NOV on June 9, 2009. IEPA has not made a penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. In late January 2009, Granite City Works exceeded its natural gas usage and corresponding emission limits for 2008 at designated combustion units, including boilers and ladle drying. A notification letter was submitted to IEPA by U. S. Steel on January 30, 2009. Per U. S. Steels January 30, 2009 correspondence, U. S. Steel provided a Compliance Plan regarding fuel use and fuel balance to IEPA on February 28, 2009. IEPA has not responded to the self reported violations or made any penalty demand. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Granite City Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Granite City Works: failed to apply for an obtain a Prevention of Signficant Deterioration/New Source Review permit for the 1994 B Blast Furnace reline (while the furnace was owned by National Steel Corporation); exceeded BOP roof monitor opacity limits, exceeded blast furnace casthouse roof monitor opacity limits; and failed to complete certain permit recordkeeping and parameteric monitoring requirements. Granite City Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and the current property owner pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality. U. S. Steel developed work plans and completed remediation on certain areas of the site. Having completed the invesigation on a majority of remaining areas identified in the permit, U. S. Steel has 47 Table of Contents determined that the most effective means to address the remaining impacted material is to manage those materials in a previously approved on site Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU). U. S. Steel has recorded a liability of $66 million as of December 2009, for our estimated share of the remaining costs of remediation, including the construction, waste management, closure and post closure of a CAMU. USS POSCO Industries (UPI) At UPI, a joint venture between subsidaries of U. S. Steel and POSCO Industries, corrective measures have been implemented for the majority of the former SWMUs. Seven SWMUs remain at the facility, five of which require further remediation. Prior to the formation of UPI, U. S. Steel owned and operated the Pittsburg, California facility and U. S. Steel retained responsibility for the existing environmental conditions. Two SWMUs may not require further action pending a No Further Action decision by the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC). Of the five SWMUs requiring remediation, U. S. Steel is nearing completion of investigatory work which will result in engineered remedies for two SWMUs. These SWMUs include the impacted ground water at the former wire mill, and the coal tar pitch impacted soils near the old foundry building. U. S. Steel is continuing discussions with the DTSC regarding additional corrective measures that may be required at the three remaining SWMUs within the facility. Arsenic impacted soils and groundwater have been delineated at these three SWMUs. While it is likely that corrective measures will be required at these SWMUs, it is not possible at this time to define a scope or estimate costs for what may be required by DTSC. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Other On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB) entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Implementation of the preferred remedy was essentially completed in late 2007. The respondents are finalizing the Removal Action Summary report by addressing some minor site maintenance issues, deed restrictions and operating and maintenance plans for approval by KDHE. U. S. Steel and SSB continue to work with KDHE to address site maintenance issues. At December 31, 2009, an accrual of $121,000 remains available for these project contingencies. On January 23, 2006, Kansas Department of Health and Environment KDHE sent a letter to U. S. Steel requesting that U. S. Steel address a former zinc smelter site in Girard, Kansas. U. S. Steel completed a site investigation, and submitted a Corrective Action Study (CAS) necessary to address the impacted soils at this site. KDHE approved the CAS on November 17, 2009. In addition, a Consent Agreement and Final Order, through which the remediation will be conducted, remains to be negotiated with KDHE. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has an accrued liability of $1 million to complete the investigation and conduct the remedial measure as proposed in the CAS. In January of 2004, U. S. Steel received notice of a claim from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and notice of claims from citizens of a cap failure at the Dayton Landfill. U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil are the largest PRPs at the site and have agreed to equally share costs for investigating the site, making U. S. Steels share 33 1/3 percent. The Remedial Action Plan for the site was approved by TCEQ in June 2009. On December 10, 2009, pursuant to the Texas Solid Waste Disposal Act, The Cox Road Group (comprised of U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil) filed a contribution/cost of recovery action against apporximately 50 parties in Liberty County, Texas. Implementation of remedial measures is expected to be initiated in 2010. The accrued liability to complete U. S. Steels one third portion of the site investigations and implement the remedial measure was $1.8 million as of December 31, 2009. 48 Table of Contents Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2010, are as follows: Name Age Title Executive OfficerSince George F. Babcoke 53 Senior Vice President European Operations & President U. S. Steel Koice March 1, 2008 James D. Garraux 57 General Counsel & Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs February 1, 2007 John H. Goodish 61 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer December 31, 2001 Gretchen R. Haggerty 54 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer December 31, 2001 David H. Lohr 56 Senior Vice President Strategic Planning, Business Services & Administration June 1, 2008 John P. Surma 55 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer December 31, 2001 Susan M. Suver 50 Vice President Human Resources November 1, 2007 Gregory A. Zovko 48 Vice President & Controller April 1, 2009 All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel or our subsidiaries for more than the past five years, with the exception of Ms. Suver. Prior to joining U. S. Steel, Ms. Suver served as corporate vice president, Global Human Resources for Arrow Electronics, Inc. (Arrow), a $12 billion global provider of industrial and commercial electronic components and computer products. She joined Arrow in 2001 as vice president, Global Organizational Development. Prior to that, she served as vice president, Organization Effectiveness and Communication for Phelps Dodge Corporation. Messrs. Garraux, Goodish and Surma and Ms. Haggerty will hold office until the annual election of executive officers by the Board of Directors following the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or until his or her earlier resignation, retirement or removal. Messrs. Babcoke, Lohr and Zovko and Ms. Suver will hold office until their resignation, retirement or removal. 49 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 61. As of January 31, 2010, there were 20,322 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. Dividends are declared by U. S. Steel on a quarterly basis. For the first quarter of 2009, the dividend declared per share of U. S. Steel common stock was $.30 and for the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, the dividend declared was $.05. For the first and second quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.25 and for the third and fourth quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.30. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds. Shareholder Return Performance The graph below compares the yearly change in cumulative total shareholder return of our common stock with the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poors (S&Ps) 500 Stock Index and the S&P Steel Index. The S&P Steel Index is comprised of U. S. Steel, Nucor Corporation, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated and Worthington Industries, Inc. 50 Table of Contents Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities U. S. Steel had no sales of unregistered securities during the period covered by this report and we have suspended purchases under our Common Stock Repurchase Program. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2009 2008 2007(a) 2006 2005 Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(b) $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 $ 15,715 $ 14,039 (Loss) income from operations(c) (1,684 ) 3,069 1,213 1,785 1,439 Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(c) (1,401 ) 2,112 879 1,374 910 Per Common Share Data: Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(d) basic (10.42 ) 18.04 7.44 11.88 7.87 diluted (10.42 ) 17.96 7.40 11.18 7.00 Dividends per share declared and paid 0.45 1.10 0.80 0.60 0.38 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 15,422 $ 16,087 $ 15,632 $ 10,586 $ 9,822 Capitalization: Debt(e) $ 3,364 $ 3,145 $ 3,257 $ 1,025 $ 1,612 United States Steel Corporation stockholders equity 4,676 4,895 5,531 4,365 3,324 Total capitalization $ 8,040 $ 8,040 $ 8,788 $ 5,390 $ 4,936 (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. (b) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from higher average realized prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe (including favorable foreign currency effects) and higher shipments of flat rolled and tubular products in the U.S. The increase in net sales from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from higher shipments and increased average realized prices prices in all three reportable segments. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2006 to 2007 mainly resulted from higher raw materials and outage related costs in the U.S. and Europe, increased maintenance costs in the U.S., lower average realized prices for tubular products in the U.S. and unfavorable inventory transition effects related to inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco. These were partially offset by higher prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe. The increase from 2005 to 2006 was mainly due to higher average realized prices in the U.S., higher shipments of flat rolled products in the U.S. and in Europe and lower raw materials costs in Europe. These were partially offset by higher raw materials costs in the U.S. (d) See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2009 and 2008 see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from new debt issued to fund the acquisitions of USSC and Lone Star. The decrease from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from the repurchase of most of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due August 1, 2008, and from the repayment and termination of a 195 million credit facility at USSK. 51 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the tenth largest steel producer in the world and the largest integrated steel producer headquartered in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions to produce a wide range of flat rolled and tubular steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil, gas and petrochemical industries. In addition to our facilities in the United States, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Canada through U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) and in Europe through U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), located in Serbia. U. S. Steels financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. While the operating results of our various businesses are affected by a number of business specific factors (see Item 1. Business Steel Industry Background and Competition), the primary drivers for U. S. Steel are general economic conditions in North America, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other benefits costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. Following several years of strong performance, the steel industry and U. S. Steel were quickly and severely impacted by the global recession starting in late 2008. In response to these economic conditions, our strategy has been to enhance our liquidity, maintain a solid balance sheet and position ourselves for success in the longer term. In late 2008 and early 2009, we idled all or portions of numerous steel making, finishing, raw materials and tubular operations in the U.S., Canada and Europe and operated our remaining facilities at reduced levels to match our customers lower demand requirements. We continue to monitor the impact of the economic situation on our customers and to adjust our operations to efficiently meet their requirements. Our raw steel capability utilization rate in 2009 was 48% for Flat rolled operations and 69% for USSE operations. With respect to financial matters, we reduced our quarterly dividend, completed successful offerings of senior convertible notes and common stock and renegotiated the provisions of existing financial covenants with lenders. We initiated substantial cost reduction activities at all locations, including reducing our non represented workforce through restructuring, attrition and early retirement programs. We agreed with the United Steel Workers (USW) to defer certain mandatory trust contributions, implemented a hiring freeze, eliminated merit pay salary increases, suspended the Company match on our 401(k) program, and reduced fees for Board of Directors and base salaries for all general managers and executives. We significantly reduced our capital expenditures for 2009 from the original plan of $740 million to $472 million by focusing largely on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. We voluntarily contributed $140 million to the main defined benefit plan as we still believe that this is appropriate to mitigate larger potential funding requirements in the future. We refinanced $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds extending their maturity dates from 2011 to maturity dates ranging from 2017 to 2030. We finished the year with total liquidity of $2.5 billion, an improvement of nearly $300 million from the average of the previous five year ends. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to earn a competitive return on capital employed by implementing our strategy to be a world leader in safety and environmental performance; to continue to increase our value added product mix; to further expand our global business platform; to maintain a strong capital structure, balance sheet and liquidity position; to continue to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to attract and retain a diverse and talented workforce. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which are impacting the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the level of unfunded pension and other benefits obligations; the degree of industry consolidation; the impact of production and consumption of steel in China and other developing countries; and the levels of steel imports into the markets we serve. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to employee benefits liabilities and assets held in trust relating to such liabilities; the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; goodwill and intangible assets; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations and potential litigation claims and settlements. Managements estimates are based on historical experience, current business and market conditions, and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. LIFO (last in, first out) is the predominant method of inventory costing for inventories in the United States and FIFO (first in, first out) is the predominant method used in Canada and Europe. The LIFO method of inventory costing was used for 49 percent and 39 percent of consolidated inventories at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Equity Method Investments Investments in entities over which U. S. Steel has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are carried at U. S. Steels share of net assets plus loans, advances and our share of earnings less distributions. Differences in the basis of the investment and the underlying net asset value of the investee, if any, are amortized into earnings over the remaining useful life of the associated assets. Income from investees includes U. S. Steels share of income from equity method investments, which is generally recorded a month in arrears, except for significant and unusual items which are recorded in the period of occurrence. Gains or losses from changes in ownership of unconsolidated investees are recognized in the period of change. Intercompany profits and losses on transactions with equity investees have been eliminated in consolidation subject to lower of cost or market inventory adjustments. U. S. Steel evaluates impairment of its equity method investments whenever circumstances indicate that a decline in value below carrying value is other than temporary. Under these circumstances, we would adjust the investment down to its estimated fair value, which then becomes its new carrying value. Pensions and Other Benefits The recording of net periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pensions and other benefits is based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the 53 Table of Contents assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steels investment strategy for its U.S. pension and other benefits plan assets provides for a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality bonds and selected smaller investments in private equities, investment trusts, timber and mineral interests. For its U.S. pension plans, U. S. Steel has a target allocation for plan assets of 60 percent equities with the balance primarily invested in corporate bonds and government backed bonds and Treasury bills. For the Other Benefit plans, the target allocation for plan assets is 65 percent equities. U. S. Steel also believes that returns on equities over the long term will be higher than returns from fixed income securities as actual historical returns from U. S. Steels trusts have shown. Returns on bonds tend to offset some of the shorter term volatility of stocks. Both equity and fixed income investments are made across a broad range of industries and companies to provide protection against the impact of volatility in any single industry as well as company specific developments. U. S. Steel is currently using an 8.00 percent assumed rate of return for purposes of the expected return on assets for the development of net periodic cost for the main defined benefit pension plan and Other Benefits. This rate was chosen by taking into account the intended asset mix and the historical premiums that fixed income and equity investments have yielded above government bonds. Actual returns since the inception of the plans have exceeded this 8.00 percent rate and while some recent annual returns have not, it is U. S. Steels expectation that future periods will return to this level. For USSC defined benefit pension plans, U. S. Steels investment strategy is similar to its strategy for U.S. plans, whereby the Company seeks a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality corporate and government bonds and selected smaller investments with a target allocation for plan assets of 65 percent equities. A 7.50 percent rate of return is being used for the development of net periodic costs in 2010 which is lower than the U.S. pension plan assumption as subcategories within the asset mix are from a more limited investment universe and, as a result, have a lower expected return. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate used to measure both domestic pension and other benefits obligations to 5.5 percent from 6.0 percent. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which we estimate the pension and other benefits liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting the domestic rates, we utilize several AAA and AA corporate bond indices as an indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. For USSC benefit plans, a discount rate was selected through a similar review process using Canadian bond rates and indices and at December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate to 6.0 percent from 6.5 percent for its Canadian based pension and other benefits. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Much of our costs for the domestic USW participants retiree health benefits (other than for most surviving spouses) in the Companys main domestic insurance plan are subject to a cost cap that was negotiated in 2003. As a result of the collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) (see Note 17 to the Financial Statements), our costs are subject to the full impact of escalation for the surviving spouse beneficiaries since their retiree premium contributions are now a flat fixed amount. Escalation applies to most other groups within the Companys insurance plans, but does not apply to most domestic non union retirees since their benefits are limited to flat dollar amounts. For measurement of its domestic retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 8.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2015 and remain at that level thereafter. For measurement of its Canadian retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 7.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2014 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, including multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $270 million in 2010 compared to $271 million in 2009. Pension cost for 2009 included $80 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Total other benefits costs in 2010 are expected to be approximately $150 million, compared to $191 million in 2009. Other benefit costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Excluding the 2009 settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the expected increase in total pension cost is primarily due to a lower market related value of plan assets primarily due to further recognition of the asset losses that were incurred in 2008. 54 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical  1/2 percentage point change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and other benefits calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) 1/2% (1/2%) Expected return on plan assets Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension cost for 2010 $ (52 ) $ 52 Discount rate Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension & other benefits costs for 2010 $ (22 ) $ 32 Pension & other benefits liabilities at December 31, 2009 $ (613 ) $ 658 Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental increase (decrease) in: Service and interest cost components for 2010 $ 8 $ (7 ) Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost over the fair value of acquired identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities assumed from businesses acquired. We have two reporting units that have a significant amount of goodwill. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007. These amounts reflect the benefits we expect the Flat rolled reporting unit to realize from expanding our flexibility in meeting our customers needs and running our Flat rolled facilities at higher operating rates to source our semi finished product needs. Our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition, reflecting the benefits we expect the reporting unit to realize from the expansion of our tubular operations. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. U. S. Steel completed its annual goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of 2009 and determined that there was no goodwill impairment for either reporting unit. Fair value was determined in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820 on fair value, which requires consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable. For the 2009 annual goodwill impairment test, U. S. Steel used fair values estimated under the income approach and the market approach. Although considered, U. S. Steel did not utilize the cost approach as relevant data was not available. The income approach is based upon projected future cash flows discounted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk associated with the future cash flows. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using probability weighted scenarios of future cash flow projections based on managements long range estimates of market conditions over a multiple year horizon. A three percent perpetual growth rate was used to arrive at an estimated future terminal value. A discount rate of 11 percent was used for both reporting units which was based upon the cost of capital of other comparable steel companies, which we view as the most likely market participants. The market approach is based upon an analysis of valuation metrics for companies comparable to our reporting units. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using an appropriate valuation multiple based on this analysis, estimated normalized earnings and an estimated control premium. 55 Table of Contents In order to validate the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units, a reconciliation of the aggregate fair values of all reporting units to market capitalization, using a reasonable control premium, was performed as of the valuation date. We further validated the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units using other valuation metrics that included data from historical U. S. Steel transactions as well as published analyst reports. As of December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively, but would still result in no goodwill impairment charge. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit under the income approach are determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions, including assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or assumed growth rates, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. U. S. Steel has determined that certain acquired intangible assets have indefinite useful lives. These assets are reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long lived assets U. S. Steel evaluates long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of those productive assets exceed their projected undiscounted cash flows. We evaluate the impairment of long lived assets at the asset group level. Our asset groupings are the same as our reporting units. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel determines that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of our deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of our net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. income taxes on undistributed foreign earnings because as of December 31, 2009, it remained managements intention to continue indefinitely to reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2009 amounted to approximately $2,901 million. If such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $870 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss for items that have been or may be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, court case, tax ruling or other authoritative tax position), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2009, the total accrual for environmental remediation was $203 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations. Due to uncertainties inherent in remediation projects, it is possible that total remediation costs for active matters may exceed the accrued liability by as much as 15 to 30 percent. Segments U. S. Steel has three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2008, the operating results of our iron ore operations, which were previously included in Other Businesses, are included in the Flat rolled segment. The iron ore operations are managed as part of our Flat rolled segment, which consumes almost all of our iron ore production. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this change. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels North American integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of slabs, rounds, strip mill plates, sheets and tin mill products , as well as all iron ore and coke production facilities in the United States and Canada. The steel rounds and a portion of the hot rolled sheets produced by Flat rolled are supplied to the Tubular segment. These operations primarily serve North American customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), construction, container, and appliance and electrical markets. Flat rolled has annual raw steel production capability of 24.3 million tons. Flat rolled had annual raw steel production capability of 20.2 million tons for the year ended December 31, 2007 as annual raw steel production capability includes U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Raw steel production was 11.7 million tons in 2009, 19.2 million tons in 2008 and 16.8 million tons in 2007. Raw steel production averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009, 79 percent of capability in 2008 and 83 percent of capability in 2007. The USSE segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and coke production facilities in Slovakia; U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and other facilities in Serbia; and equity investees located in Europe. USSE primarily serves customers in the European construction, service center, conversion, container, transportation (including automotive), appliance and electrical, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. USSE produces and sells slabs, sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill products and spiral welded pipe, as well as heating radiators and refractory ceramic materials. USSE has annual raw steel production capability of 7.4 million tons. USSEs raw steel production was 5.1 million tons in 2009, 6.4 million tons in 2008 and 6.8 million tons in 2007. USSEs raw steel production averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009, 86 percent of capability in 2008 and 92 percent of capability in 2007. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels tubular production facilities, primarily in the United States, and equity investees in the United States and Brazil. These operations produce and sell seamless and electric resistance welded (ERW) steel casing and tubing (commonly known as oil country tubular goods or OCTG), standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. Tubulars annual production capability is 2.8 million tons. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses include transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations and engineering consulting services. For further information, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents Net Sales (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Net Sales by Segment (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2009 2008 2007(b) Flat rolled(a) $ 6,814 $ 13,789 $ 9,986 USSE 2,944 5,487 4,667 Tubular 1,216 4,251 1,985 Total sales from reportable segments 10,974 23,527 16,638 Other Businesses(a) 74 227 235 Net sales $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 (a) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements. (b) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2009 versus Year Ended December 31, 2008 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 40 % 8 % 0 % 1 % 2 % 51 % USSE 20 % 20 % 1 % 3 % 2 % 46 % Tubular 63 % 5 % 1 % 0 % 4 % 71 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The decrease in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected decreased shipments (down 7.0 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $129 per net ton). The decrease in sales for USSE was primarily due to decreased shipments (down 1.2 million net tons) and lower average realized euro based transaction prices (down $295 per net ton including foreign currency translation effects). The decrease in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from decreased shipments (down 1.3 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $286 per net ton). 58 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 versus Year Ended December 31, 2007 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 19 % 19 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 38 % USSE 7 % 18 % 1 % 7 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 40 % 64 % 4 % 0 % 6 % 114 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The increase in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected higher average realized prices (up $138 per ton) and increased shipments, primarily due to the inclusion of USSC for all of 2008. The increase in sales for USSE was primarily due to higher average realized euro based transaction prices and currency translation effects, partially offset by reduced shipments. Including the currency translation effects, reported average realized prices increased $212 per ton from 2007. The increase in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from higher average realized prices (up $706 per ton) and increased shipments, partially due to the inclusion of the former Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) facilities for the entire year in 2008. Operating Expenses Profit based union payments Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Allocated to segment results $ $ 237 $ 119 Retiree benefit expenses 99 Total $ $ 237 $ 218 Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 did not include any costs for profit based payments to employees represented by the USW because the base threshold of operating income agreed to in the 2008 CBAs was not met. Results for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 include costs related to profit based payments. These costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Profit based payment amounts per the agreements with the USW are calculated as a percentage of consolidated income from operations (as defined in the agreements) and are paid as profit sharing to active USW represented employees (excluding employees of USSC) based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. Amounts in 2007 also include costs related to a trust that was to be used to assist retirees from National Steel with health care costs. Pension and other benefits costs Defined benefit and multiemployer pension plan costs totaled $271 million during 2009, $78 million during 2008 and $129 million in 2007. Pension costs during 2009 included $80 million for several voluntary early retirement programs (VERPs) and losses in connection with the sale of a majority of the operating assets of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E). Excluding these losses, the increase in expense from 2008 to 2009 mainly reflected the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Pension costs during 2007 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $20 million. Excluding these losses, the decrease in expense from 2007 to 2008 mainly reflected the improved funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $25 million during 2009, $35 million during 2008 and $26 million during 2007. Costs in 2009 included $13 million for VERP related benefits under these plans. Other benefits costs, which are included in income from operations, totaled $191 million in 2009, $149 million in 2008 and $136 million in 2007. Other benefits costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and 59 Table of Contents curtailment losses. Excluding these losses, the increase in 2009 was primarily due to impacts of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs partially offset by lower costs at USSC as a result of favorable claims experience. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of expenses related to USSC employees for the full year. For additional information on pensions and other benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Nonretirement postemployment benefits U. S. Steel incurred costs of and paid approximately $85 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 related to employee costs for supplemental unemployment benefits, salary continuance and continuation of health care benefits and life insurance coverage for employees associated with the temporary idling of certain facilities and reduced production at others. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $618 million in 2009, $625 million in 2008 and $589 million in 2007. Pension and other benefits costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $164 million in 2009, $47 million in 2008 and $86 million in 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses remained consistent from 2008 to 2009 but were impacted by an increase in pension and OPEB costs offset by a decrease in compensation expense. The increase in 2008 mainly resulted from increased expenses related to our 2007 acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and higher compensation expense, partially offset by lower pension expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization Depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses were $661 million in 2009, $605 million in 2008 and $506 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily related to the fact that effective January 1, 2009 we eliminated the use of the modified straight line method, which was previously used for certain steel producing assets in the United States. The increase in 2008 was primarily related to the full year impact of assets acquired in the business acquisitions during 2007. The modification factors previously applied to straight line calculations ranged from a minimum of 85 percent at a production level below 81 percent of capability, to a maximum of 105 percent for a 100 percent production level. No modification was made at the 95 percent production level. Applying modification factors decreased depreciation expense, when compared to a straight line calculation, by $58 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 60 Table of Contents (Loss) Income from Operations(a) Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 2007 Flat rolled(b) $ (1,438 ) $ 1,390 $ 382 USSE (208 ) 491 687 Tubular 57 1,207 356 Total (loss) income from reportable segments (1,589 ) 3,088 1,425 Other Businesses(b) (2 ) 77 84 Segment (loss) income from operations (1,591 ) 3,165 1,509 Retiree benefit expenses (134 ) (22 ) (143 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Federal excise tax refund 34 Litigation reserve 45 (45 ) Net (loss) gain on the sale of assets 97 Environmental remediation charge (49 ) (23 ) Workforce reduction charges (86 ) (57 ) Deferred gain recognition 150 Labor agreement signing payments (105 ) Asset impairment charge (28 ) Flat rolled inventory transition effects (23 ) (58 ) Tubular inventory transition effects (38 ) Total (loss) income from operations $ (1,684 ) $ 3,069 $ 1,213 (a) See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280. (b) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. 61 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled (Includes USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007) The Flat rolled segment generated a loss of $1,438 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $1,390 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted mainly from unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $2,450 million), lower income from reduced steel substrate sales to our Tubular segment (approximately $400 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities (approximately $360 million), facility restart costs (approximately $70 million) and lower income from equity investments (approximately $190 million). These were partially offset by lower raw material and natural gas costs (approximately $370 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $300 million). The increase in Flat rolleds segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 resulted mainly from higher commercial effects (approximately $2,780 million) and increased income from semi finished steel sales to Tubular (approximately $470 million). These were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials (approximately $1,560 million) and energy (approximately $280 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $170 million) and higher accruals for profit based payments (approximately $150 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. 62 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE The USSE segment generated a loss of $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $491 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $1,300 million) and reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $135 million) partially offset by lower raw material costs (approximately $620 million), reduced facility repair and maintenance costs (approximately $60 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $50 million). The decrease in USSEs segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to higher raw materials and energy costs (approximately $780 million), net unfavorable currency effects (approximately $50 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $40 million) and outage related costs (approximately $30 million), partially offset by higher commercial effects (approximately $740 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. Capability utilization in 2008 was adversely affected by the reline of the No. 1 blast furnace in Slovakia and by reduced operations late in the year to match declining customer demand. 63 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular (Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007) The decrease in Tubulars segment income in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to unfavorable commercial effects (approximately $1,080 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities and facilities operating at reduced production levels (approximately $35 million and $60 million, respectively) and write downs of inventory (approximately $35 million). These were partially offset by lower costs of substrate steel purchases from the Flat rolled segment (approximately $40 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $55 million). The increase in Tubulars segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 mainly resulted from higher commercial effects (approximately $1,580), due in part to the inclusion of results for facilities acquired from Lone Star for the entire year. This was partially offset by increased costs for semi finished steel (approximately $610 million) from Flat rolled and outside sources. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses generated a loss of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $77 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted from the impacts of the global recession and the sale of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E) in the first quarter of 2009. Results for Other Businesses decreased by $7 million from 2007 to 2008. Items not allocated to segments: Retiree benefit expenses increased significantly from 2008 to 2009 mainly due to the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Retiree benefit expenses decreased significantly from 2007 to 2008 mainly due to lower retiree pension expense (See Operating Expenses Pension and other benefits costs) and lower profit based expense related to certain former National Steel employees (See Operating Expenses Profit based union payments). 64 Table of Contents During 2009, U. S. Steel received a federal excise tax refund of $34 million associated with the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales from 1990 to 1992. A litigation reserve of $45 million involving a rate escalation provision in a U. S. Steel power supply contract was established in 2008 as a result of a court ruling and was subsequently reversed in 2009 as that decision was overturned. See Part II. Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings. We recorded a $97 million pre tax net gain on sale of assets in 2009 as a result of the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. The net gain included a pension curtailment loss of approximately $10 million. We recorded a $49 million environmental remediation charge in 2009 in connection with the definition of an expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works. We recorded a $23 million environmental remediation charge in 2008 as the scope of work became defined for an environmental project at a former operating location. Workforce reduction charges of $86 million in 2009 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a VERP offered in the first quarter of 2009 to certain non represented employees in the United States. Workforce reduction charges of $57 million in 2007 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a voluntary early retirement plan offered to certain employees at USSK. We recognized a noncash deferred gain of $150 million in 2008 in connection with the termination of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements. The 2008 CBAs provided for labor agreement signing payments of up to $6,000 per employee which resulted in a charge of $105 million in 2008. An asset impairment charge of $28 million in 2008 resulted from our decision to exit the drawn over mandrel (DOM) tubular products business. The charge was taken principally to write down to fair value equipment associated with the DOM business. Inventory transition effects of $23 million in 2008 and $96 million in 2007 reflected the charges for conforming certain inventories acquired from Lone Star to our unified business model, and the impact of selling inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco, which had been recorded at fair value. Net Interest and Other Financial Costs Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Interest and other financial costs $ 179 $ 179 $ 162 (a) Interest income (10 ) (14 ) (79 )(a) Foreign currency gains (8 ) (103 ) (4 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 26 Net interest and other financial costs $ 161 $ 62 $ 105 (a) The year ended December 31, 2007 includes $27 million of interest expense and offsetting interest income related to the obligation to provide benefits for National Steel retirees that was settled in the fourth quarter of 2007. While the obligation was outstanding, U. S. Steel invested the amount due in short term investments and interest earned on those investments was also payable. The increase in net interest and other financial costs from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to lower foreign currency gains. The decrease in net interest and other financial costs from 2007 to 2008 was mainly due to higher foreign currency gains and the nonrecurrence of the $26 million charge in 2007 related to the early redemption of certain debt, partially offset by increased interest expense resulting from debt incurred to fund the acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and lower interest income. 65 Table of Contents The foreign currency gains include remeasurement effects on a U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan (the Intercompany Loan) from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary related to the 2007 acquisition of USSC that had an outstanding balance of $892 million at December 31, 2009, partially offset by losses on euro U.S. dollar derivatives activity, which we use to mitigate our foreign currency exposure. Volatility in the foreign currency markets could have significant implications for U. S. Steel going forward as a result of the foreign currency accounting remeasurement effects resulting from the Intercompany Loan and foreign currency gains and losses on derivatives activity. For additional information on U. S. Steels foreign currency exchange activity see Note 15 to the Financial Statements and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. Income Taxes The income tax benefit in 2009 was $439 million, compared to provisions of $853 million in 2008 and $218 million in 2007. The tax benefit in 2009 is primarily related to the net loss for the period. The effective tax benefit rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 is lower than the statutory rate because losses in Canada and Serbia, which are jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, do not generate a tax benefit for accounting purposes. The increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily reflected higher income and a higher effective tax rate as a result of a lower percentage of pre tax earnings generated by our European operations. The net domestic deferred tax asset was $731 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $802 million at December 31, 2008. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset from 2009 to 2008 was primarily a result of the remeasurement of the pension and other benefits plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements). At December 31, 2009, the foreign deferred tax assets recorded were $103 million, net of established valuation allowances of $575 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the euro, the Canadian dollar and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian deferred tax assets due to the absence of positive evidence at USSC to support the realizability of the assets. A full valuation allowance is provided for Serbian deferred tax assets because current projected investment tax credits, which must be used before net operating losses and credit carryforwards, are more than sufficient to offset future tax liabilities. As USSC and USSS generate sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $514 million for Canadian deferred tax assets and $46 million for Serbian deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009, would be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. For further information on income taxes see Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Net income Net loss in 2009 was $1,401 million compared to income of $2,112 million in 2008 and $879 million in 2007. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2009 decreased by $717 million from year end 2008 primarily due to lower inventories and lower receivables partially offset by higher cash balances (see Cash Flows). The decrease in inventories primarily resulted from lower quantities of higher cost raw materials. Raw material inventory quantities decreased as U. S. Steel maintained lower operating rates throughout 2009 and reduced raw material purchases as a cash conservation measure. Receivables decreased mainly due to lower sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, due primarily to lower average realized prices. These decreases were partially offset by the recognition of an income tax receivable representing a portion of the federal income tax refund that we expect to receive in 2010 as a result of carrying back our expected 2009 losses to prior years. Goodwill of $1,725 million increased by $116 million from year end 2008 mainly as goodwill attributable to the acqusition of Stelco were reported at higher amounts due to foreign currency translation effects. 66 Table of Contents Assets held for sale at December 31, 2009 consist of certain assets at Hamilton Works, primarily property, plant and equipment, and decreased from December 31, 2008 as a result of the sale of the majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. Total deferred income tax benefits at year end 2009 remained consistent with the balance at year end 2008. Deferred income tax benefits were primarily impacted by an increase in foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards offset by an increase in the valuation allowance, since a full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian and Serbian deferred tax assets, and a decrease in the deferred income tax benefit related to employee benefits. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Current liabilities at year end 2009 decreased by $304 million from year end 2009 due mainly to lower payroll and benefits payable resulting from the absence of accruals for profit based payments and lower accrued taxes resulting from reduced net income in 2009 compared to 2008. Several balance sheet accounts changed as a result of an improvement in the net funded status of our pension and other employee benefits plans. Employee benefits decreased by $624 million and the accumulated other comprehensive loss decreased by $541 billion. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The decrease in the accumulated other comprehensive loss was also due to foreign currency translation effects as a result of the weakening U.S. dollar versus the Euro and the Canadian dollar. The increase in long term debt from December 31, 2008 was mainly due to our public offering in May 2009 of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014, partially offset by the repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. See Liquidity. Common stock and Additional paid in capital increased by $27 million and $666 million, respectively, compared to year end 2008 primarily as a result of our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May 2009. See Liquidity. Cash Flows Net cash used in operating activities was $61 million in 2009 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1,658 million in 2008 and $1,732 million in 2007. This change was primarily related to a net loss of approximately $696 million after adjustments for noncash items in 2009 compared to income of approximately $2.6 billion after adjustments for noncash items in 2008. The favorable working capital change in 2009 of approximately $1.3 billion mainly reflected lower inventory and receivables levels, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items in 2008 compared to 2007 was more than offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency translation effects due mainly to the strengthening of the U. S. dollar and unfavorable working capital effects (excluding the 2007 acquisitions). The unfavorable working capital change in 2008 mainly reflected higher inventory levels and the repurchase of receivables, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities for 2009 was increased and net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 and 2007 was reduced by employee benefits payments as shown in the following table. 67 Table of Contents Employee Benefits Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ 140 $ 140 $ 140 Required contributions to other defined benefit pension plans 79 73 23 Other employee benefits payments not funded by trusts 285 236 213 Contributions to trusts for retiree health care and life insurance(a) 12 228 498 Payments to a multiemployer pension plan 58 33 30 Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts 84 29 17 Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ 658 $ 739 $ 921 (a) Includes $143 million in 2008 and $468 million in 2007 for a company contribution to U. S. Steels trust for retiree health care and life insurance fulfilling the Companys obligation under an agreement with the USW regarding benefits for certain former National Steel employees. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and healthcare by the end of 2011. Capital expenditures variable interest entities was $147 million in 2009 and $161 million in 2008. This primarily reflects spending by Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) for a non recovery coke plant to supply Granite City Works. This spending is consolidated in our financial results but is funded by Gateway and, therefore, is completely offset by amounts included in distributions from noncontrolling interests, which is included in cash flow from financing activities. 68 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2009 of $472 million consisted largely of non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long term strategic importance, as we substantially reduced our capital spending from the original plan of $740 million to conserve liquidity. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $338 million in 2009included spending development of an enterprise resourceplanning (ERP) system, non discretionary environmentalprojects, maintenance on the No. 14 blast furnace at GaryWorks and cokemaking projects at Granite City Works andthe Clairton Plant, including the construction of acogeneration facility at Granite City Works. USSEexpenditures of $113 million included spending at USSK forthe maintenance of the No.3 blast furnace, a coke oven gasdesulphurization project and spending for development of theERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $465 million in 2008 included spending for modernization of our cokemaking facilities, including expenditures for construction of a cogeneration facility at Granite City Works, development of an ERP system and replacement of open pit mining equipment at our iron ore operations USSE expenditures of $210 million included spending at USSK for the reline of the No.1 blast furnace, for replacement of electrical power transformers and to upgrade a continuous caster, and spending for development of the ERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $418 million in 2007 included spending for development of an ERP system, blast furnace stove replacements at Granite City Works and Great Lakes Works, coke oven thru wall repairs primarily at our Clairton Plant and open pit mining equipment and an environmental project at our iron ore operations. USSE expenditures of $215 million included spending at USSK for an air emission reduction project and a new automotive quality galvanizing line, spending at USSS for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace, and spending for development of an ERP system. Construction of the new galvanizing line was completed in February 2007. 69 Table of Contents U. S. Steels contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2009, totaled $152 million. Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to total approximately $530 million and remain focused largely on environmental and other infrastructure projects. We continue to evaluate investments of long term strategic importance, including projects to invest in production of coke and coke substitutes, given that some of our existing coke batteries are approaching the end of their useful lives, to reduce coke requirements in Serbia through blast furnace coal injection, to enhance our Tubular operations in order to more efficiently serve customers increased focus on shale natural gas resources and to allow us to increase our participation in the automotive market as vehicle emission and safety requirements become more stringent. In light of the significant capital commitment that such projects would entail over the next several years, we may seek to secure some long term funding for such projects and general corporate purposes prior to committing to such projects. The preceding statement concerning expected 2010 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, ability to secure long term funding, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, receipt of necessary permits and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Z Line Company reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of pickle lines reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. reflected $2,050 million paid at closing, net of cash acquired of $71 million; plus $14 million of transaction costs to acquire all of the outstanding shares. Acquisition of Stelco Inc. reflected $1,237 million paid to acquire all of the outstanding stock and stock equivalents, $785 million paid to retire substantially all of the outstanding debt and $34 million paid to Stelcos main pension plans, net of cash acquired of $32 million; plus $13 million of transaction costs. Disposal of assets in 2009 reflected pre tax cash proceeds of approximately $300 million from the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E and $36 million from the sale of emissions allowances at U. S. Steel Koice (USSK). Restricted cash in 2009 primarily reflected collateral required on previously unsecured obligations. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2008 primarily reflected amounts drawn against a USSK 200 million three year revolving credit facility, the proceeds of which were used to reduce the Intercompany Loan (see Liquidity), as well as borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Repayments of revolving credit facilities in 2008 reflected repayment of borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Common stock issued in 2009 resulted from our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2009 resulted primarily from our public offering in May of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014. Also in 2009, we issued $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds (ERBs), maturing from 2017 to 2030. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the issuance of $300 million principal amount of 5.65% Senior Notes due 2013, $450 million principal amount of 70 Table of Contents 6.05% Senior Notes due 2017, $350 million principal amount of 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 and $500 million principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018; and our entrance into two $500 million term loans and a $400 million term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2009 primarily reflected repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. Also in 2009, we completed the refunding of $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds. See Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2008 primarily reflected payments on our term loans, including the early retirement of $300 million of our three year term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the early redemption of $378 million of 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010, the early redemption of $49 million of 10% Senior Quarterly Income Debt Securities due 2031 and the repayment of a $400 million term loan. Common stock repurchased in 2008 and 2007 totaled 2.0 million shares and 1.2 million shares, respectively. Our share repurchase program was originally authorized in July 2005. In 2006, our Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2009, 4.4 million shares remained authorized for repurchase. In late 2008, we suspended repurchases under this program as part of our reaction to the difficult global economic environment. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock 4th Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 1st Qtr. 2009 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.30 2008 $ 0.30 $ 0.30 $ 0.25 $ 0.25 2007 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 Liquidity The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2009: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,218 Amount available under $750 Million Credit Facility(b) 638 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 93 Amounts available under USSS credit facilities 55 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,504 (b) As of December 31, 2009, there were no amounts drawn on the Amended Credit Agreement and inventory levels supported the full $750 million of the facility. Since availability was greater than $112.5 million, compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio was not applicable. However, based on the most recent four quarters, as of December 31, 2009, we would not meet the fixed charge coverage ratio if we were to borrow more than $637.5 million. Therefore, we reduced the availability reflected by $112.5 million. 71 Table of Contents (a) Excludes $20 million, $20 million and $27 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, of cash primarily related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership (Partnership) because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. On October 31, 2008, we acquired the equity interests in the Partnership that we did not wholly own. Excludes $1 million of cash at December 31, 2008 related to our variable interest entities. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment and restatement of its $750 million Credit Agreement dated May 11, 2007 (Amended Credit Agreement) with a group of lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (Agent). U. S. Steel simultaneously entered into a security agreement with the Agent (Security Agreement) providing for a security interest in the majority of its domestic inventory. The Amended Credit Agreement established a borrowing base formula, which limits the amounts U. S. Steel can borrow to a certain percent of the value of certain domestic inventory less specified reserves, and eliminates the previous financial covenants that consisted of interest and leverage coverage ratios. The Amended Credit Agreement contains a new financial covenant requiring U. S. Steel to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (defined as consolidated EBITDA less certain capital expenditures and cash income tax expense to certain fixed charges) of at least 1.10 to 1.00 for the most recent four consecutive quarters when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million. The Amended Credit Agreement includes revised pricing and other customary terms and conditions, and will expire on May 11, 2012. For further information regarding the Amended Credit Agreement and Security Agreement, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) that provides up to $500 million of liquidity and letters of credit depending upon the number of eligible domestic receivables generated by U. S. Steel. The commitments under the RPA expire in September 2010. Domestic trade accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. If U. S. Steel decides to access this facility, USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables and if any of them are unable to fund such purchases, two banks are committed to do so. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into agreements which amended the RPA. These agreements increase certain reserve factors and percentages, provide for a termination event if there is a change of control of U. S. Steel, amend the definition of Eligible Receivables, change certain performance triggers and make conforming and clarifying changes. 72 Table of Contents The RPA may be terminated on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, failure by U. S. Steel to make payments under our material debt obligations and any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. For further information regarding the agreements, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. On May 4, 2009, U. S. Steel completed a public offering of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014 and 27,140,000 shares of its Common Stock. U. S. Steel received net proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion and used $655 million to repay all amounts outstanding under its three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Convertible Notes was $863 million. On December 11, 2009, USSK entered into a 10 million (approximately $14 million at December 31, 2009) unsecured revolving credit facility as the sole obligor. The facility expires January 2011. The facility bears interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contains other customary terms and conditions. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the facility. At December 31, 2009, USSK had no borrowings against its 40 million, 20 million and 10 million unsecured credit facilities (which approximated $101 million) but had $8 million of customs and other guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $93 million. At December 31, 2009, USSK had 200 million (approximately $288 million) fully drawn against a 200 million unsecured credit facility. USSK is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The 10 million facility expires January 2011, the 200 million facility expires July 2011, the 40 million facility expires October 2012 and the 20 million facility expires December 2012. During 2009, USSS amended its secured credit facility agreements to limit availability to the value of USSS inventory of finished and semi finished goods. These facilities include an 800 million Serbian dinar overdraft facility and a 40 million revolving credit facility (together approximately $69 million). USSS is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The facilities expire August 2010. At December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings against these facilities and availability was 39 million (approximately $55 million). On May 21, 2007, U. S. Steel issued a total of $1.1 billion of senior notes consisting of $350 million at 6.65 percent due 2037, $450 million at 6.05 percent due 2017, and $300 million at 5.65 percent due 2013, (collectively, the Senior Notes). The Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Notes was $1.1 billion. On December 10, 2007, U. S. Steel issued $500 million of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018 (the 2018 Senior Notes). The 2018 Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the 2018 Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. As of December 31, 2009, the principal amount outstanding under the 2018 Senior Notes was $500 million. We use surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. The use of some forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $150 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2009. Increases in these commitments which use collateral are reflected in restricted cash on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 73 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, in the event of a change in control of U. S. Steel, debt obligations totaling $2,462 million, which includes the Senior Notes and the Senior Convertible Notes, may be declared immediately due and payable. In such event, U. S. Steel may also be required to either repurchase the leased Fairfield slab caster for $45 million or provide a letter of credit to secure the remaining obligation. In the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, obligations of $354 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases, as well as $26 million relating to an operating lease, may be declared immediately due and payable. The guarantees of the indebtedness of unconsolidated entities of U. S. Steel totaled $11 million at December 31, 2009. In the event that any default related to the guaranteed indebtedness occurs, U. S. Steel has access to its interest in the assets of the investee to reduce its potential losses under the guarantee. U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $140 million to the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in both 2009 and 2008. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions of similar amounts in 2010 or later periods in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory contributions in later years. The contributions actually required will be greatly influenced by the level of voluntary contributions, the performance of pension fund assets in the financial markets, the elective use or disavowal of existing credit balances in future periods and various other economic factors and actuarial assumptions that may come to influence the level of the funded position in future years. The 2008 Collective Bargaining Agreements (see Note 17) require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions during the contract period to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance. This contribution is in addition to an annual $10 million required contribution to the same trust that continues from an earlier agreement. Under this earlier agreement, a $20 million contribution is required if the Company does not contribute at least $75 million to its main pension plan in the prior year. During 2008, the Company made $85 million in contributions to the trust under these agreements, as well as a $143 million contribution to cover some of the health and life benefits for certain retirees of National Steel Corporation. During the first quarter of 2009, the Company made a $10 million contribution to this trust. In April 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the annual $75 million mandatory contributions due in 2009 and the $10 million contribution due in January 2010. Further, the USW has agreed to permit us to use all or part of the $75 million contribution made in 2008 to pay current retiree health care and life insurance claims, subject to a make up contribution in 2013. Through December 31, 2009, none of the 2008 contribution funds have been used by the Company. In conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco, now USSC (see Note 4), U. S. Steel assumed the pension plan funding agreement (the Pension Agreement) that Stelco had entered into with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Province) on March 31, 2006 that covers USSCs four main pension plans. The Pension Agreement requires minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and additional annual contributions for benefit improvements, which currently are limited to the union retiree indexing provisions. The defined annual contributions will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. In its acquisition of Stelco on October 31, 2007, U. S. Steel assumed liability for a note issued to the Province of Ontario (Province Note) (see Note 4 to the Financial Statements). The face amount of the Province Note is C$150 million (approximately $142 million at December 31, 2009) and is payable on December 31, 2015. The Province Note is unsecured and is subject to a 75 percent discount if the solvency deficiencies in the four main USSC pension plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements) are eliminated on or before the maturity date. 74 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2009, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Long term debt (including interest) and capital leases(a) $ 4,954 $ 202 $ 943 $ 1,414 $ 2,395 Operating leases(b) $ 173 40 59 34 40 Unconditional purchase obligations(c) $ 11,540 4,442 2,627 1,305 3,166 Capital commitments(d) $ 152 114 38 Environmental commitments(d) $ 203 17 186 (e) Steelworkers Pension Trust $ 286 (f) 54 113 119 (f) (f) Pensions(g) $ 451 83 153 145 70 Other benefits(h) $ 1,940 (i) 415 880 645 (i) Unrecognized tax positions $ 106 106 (e) Total contractual obligations $ 19,805 $ 5,367 $ 4,813 $ 3,662 $ 5,963 (a) See Note 16 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Amounts exclude subleases. (c) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. Additionally, includes coke and steam purchase commitments related to a coke supply agreement with Gateway Energy & Coke Company LLC (See Note 18). (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Timing of potential cash flows is not reasonably determinable. (f) While It is difficult to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, which expire in 2012, projected amounts shown through 2014 assume that the current $2.65 contribution rate per hour will apply. (g) Amounts shown represent projected cash requirements for USSC pension plans, most of which relates to a funding scheme for USSCs four main plans, whereby under an agreement with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Pension Agreement), USSC is responsible for minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and smaller annual contributions for benefit improvements related to prior cost of living adjustments. The Pension Agreement will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015 when minimum funding requirements under the Pension Benefits Act will resume. U.S. dollar equivalents of contributions are based on foreign exchange rates as of December 31, 2009 and shown projected through 2015. (h) Excludes profit based payments that may be required through September 1, 2012, pursuant to the provisions of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments that may be required. (i) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for retiree medical and retiree life benefit obligations which require the use of corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2010 through 2014 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and include mandatory contributions to the USW VEBA trust of $75 million in 2010 and $85 million in both 2011 and 2012. Projected amounts do not reflect optional drawdowns from the USW VEBA trust if U. S. Steel decides to utilize certain options available under its agreements with the USW. Amounts to be used from the VEBA trust will be determined in 2010 and later years. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the asset trust mix, medical escalation rates and company decisions or restrictions related to our trusts for retiree healthcare and life insurance that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Due to these factors, amounts shown above could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. 75 Table of Contents Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table except for the contributions required for USSCs defined benefit pension plans. (See footnote (g) of the above table). U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and other benefits during 2010 and 2011. U. S. Steel may make voluntary contributions in 2010 or later periods to the main defined benefit pension plan in the United States in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory required contributions in later years. In addition to the USSC amounts included in the above table, U. S. Steel expects to make cash payments of $15 million to other pension plans not funded by trusts. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2009, and the effect such commitments could have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 122 $ 109 $ $ $ 13 (c) Surety bonds(a) 18 18 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 33 33 (c) Marathon Oil Corporation(a)(b) 26 26 Total commercial commitments $ 199 $ 109 $ 26 $ $ 64 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) Reflects the amount of U. S. Steels operating lease obligations that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. Our major cash requirements in 2010 are expected to be for capital expenditures, employee benefits and working capital requirements. We finished 2009 with $1.2 billion of available cash. As business conditions recover, our working capital requirements will likely increase and we may need to draw upon our credit facilities for necessary cash. Funding under the RPA and the Amended Credit Agreement is based on a pool of eligible domestic receivables and domestic inventory, respectively, both of which have declined as a result of lower orders and our efforts to reduce working capital. A sudden increase in orders could require a significant amount of investment in working capital. Should we experience a significant increase in orders or an unexpected need for funds that cannot be met with available cash and our liquidity facilities, we may need to access the capital markets. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy our obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Our opinion regarding liquidity is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than recent levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Debt and Senior Convertible Notes Ratings The ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt by Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) are BB and Ba3, respectively. On January 27, 2010, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) lowered its ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt from BBB to BB+ and revised its outlook to stable. Any further downgrades could reduce our access to the capital markets and increase our financing costs. 76 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, a portion of the labor force used by the investees is provided by U. S. Steel, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. In September 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utilities at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a cogeneration facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. U. S. Steel is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay annual capacity and operating and maintenance fees. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, which was effective January 1, 2004. During the initial 5 year period, U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that were annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Other guarantees, indemnifications and take or pay arrangements are discussed in Notes 18 and 28 to the Financial Statements. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations and similar obligations in Europe and Canada, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent that these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that our major North American, and many European, integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that our relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills, some foreign steel producers (particularly in developing economies such as China) and producers of materials which compete with steel, all of which may not be required to incur equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to our prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Many of our competitors do not have similar historical liabilities. Our U. S. facilities are subject to the U.S. environmental standards, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. 77 Table of Contents USSC is subject to the environmental laws of Canada, which are comparable to environmental standards in the United States. Environmental regulation in Canada is an area of shared responsibility between the federal government and the provincial governments, which in turn delegate certain matters to municipal governments. Federal environmental statutes include the federal Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 and the Fisheries Act. Various provincial statutes regulate environmental matters such as the release and remediation of hazardous substances; waste storage, treatment and disposal; and air emissions. As in the United States, Canadian environmental laws (federal, provincial and local) are undergoing revision and becoming more stringent. The Canadian and Ontario governments have identified a sediment deposit in Hamilton Harbor near USSCs Hamilton Works for remediation, which the regulatory agencies estimated several years ago will require expenditures of approximately C$90 million (approximately $85 million). The national and provincial governments have each allocated C$30 million (approximately $28 million) for this project and they have stated that they will be looking for local sources, including industry, to fund the remaining one third. USSC has committed C$7 million (approximately $7 million) as its contribution. Additional contributions may be sought. USSK is subject to the environmental laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). A related law of the EU commonly known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, Regulation 1907/2006) requires the registration of certain substances that are produced in the EU or imported into the EU. USSK pre registered various substances during the six month pre registration period that ended November 30, 2008, both on its own behalf and on behalf of U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries that may be shipping products into the EU. USSK is compliant with REACH and intends to register its substances by the applicable deadlines to remain in compliance and be able to continue its businesses without material change. USSS is subject to the environmental laws of Serbia. Under the terms of the acquisition in 2003, USSS is responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study in June 2004, which was submitted to the Government of Serbia. During 2008 and 2009, USSS spent approximately $50 million to reduce air particulate emissions and undertake other environmental projects pursuant to an agreement with the Serbian government. Many nations, including all where we operate, have or are considering the regulation of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Regulation of CO2 emissions is relevant to the steel industry and U. S. Steel. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States House of Representatives has passed a bill, a bill has been introduced to the Senate and the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified CO2 as a harmful gas. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 North America: Capital $ 28 $ 44 $ 21 Compliance Operating & maintenance 294 409 278 Remediation(a) 19 27 28 Total North America $ 341 $ 480 $ 327 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 55 $ 51 Compliance Operating & maintenance 16 17 18 Remediation(a) 7 18 7 Total USSE $ 90 $ 90 $ 76 Total U. S. Steel $ 431 $ 570 $ 403 (a) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. 78 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 20 percent of total capital expenditures in 2009, 11 percent in 2008 and 10 percent in 2007. Environmental compliance expenditures represented three percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2009 and two percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2008 and 2007. Remediation spending during 2007 through 2009 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at our Fairless Plant and Lorain Tubular Operations. RCRA corrective action programs have been initiated at Gary Works, Fairfield Works and USS POSCO Industries. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. The following table shows activity with respect to environmental remediation liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 410. Environmental Remediation Liabilities (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Beginning Balance $ 162 $ 142 Plus: Additions 57 37 Less: Payments (16 ) (17 ) Ending Balance $ 203 $ 162 New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2010. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $168 million in 2010, $89 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2010 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2011, including $26 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at USSC assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic 79 Table of Contents downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active asbestoscases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional details concerning asbestos litigation see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel will vigorously defend these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Outlook for First Quarter 2010 We expect to report an overall operating loss in first quarter 2010 as gradually improving business conditions begin to be reflected in our operating results. We continue to experience improved order rates from several of our end markets. Automotive, service center, converter and appliance customer order rates in North America and Europe are at or near their highest levels in the last twelve months, while in other markets, such as construction, demand remains soft, but due to the low levels of inventory and the anticipated seasonal increases in activity at the end of the first quarter, our construction order book remains stable for both North America and Europe. A gradually strengthening economy should result in improvements in real demand, while apparent demand will likely be positively influenced by the restocking of the manufacturing supply chain, which we believe is under way. Relatively low levels of flat rolled product imports, if continued, are also expected to support improved order rates. Our Tubular operations are also continuing to experience favorable demand trends, most notably in alloy product at our welded operations in East Texas. At the same time, spot market prices are increasing across all of our segments in response to increased order rates and global raw material cost pressures. We continue to believe that the U.S. and global economies are in the early stages of a gradual recovery. While we are becoming more optimistic, primarily due to improvements we are starting to see in the manufacturing sector, we remain cautious in our outlook for end user demand. 80 Table of Contents Flat rolled results for first quarter 2010 are expected to improve from fourth quarter 2009. The benefits of increases in average realized prices and shipments, efficiencies from increased operating rates and reduced facility repair and maintenance costs are expected to be partially offset by the absence of approximately $55 million of favorable effects from LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Average realized prices are expected to increase from fourth quarter 2009 as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. Increases in our index based contract prices would be realized later as higher published market price assessments enter the index calculations for future periods. We are currently making steel at six of our seven North American steelmaking locations, with the exception being our Lake Erie Works, which represents approximately ten percent of our annual Flat rolled raw steel capability. We expect to complete maintenance work on our largest blast furnace, the #14 Blast Furnace at Gary Works, late in the first quarter and have all available capacity in operation at these six locations before the end of the quarter. Overall, raw steel capability utilization rates are expected to increase from the fourth quarter of 2009. First quarter 2010 results for USSE are expected to be comparable to fourth quarter 2009 as the benefits of increased shipments and operating efficiencies are expected to be offset by higher raw material costs. Euro based transaction prices are expected to be slightly higher than the fourth quarter as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to be lower due to foreign currency translation effects. We completed maintenance work on the #3 Blast Furnace at USSK in early February and we are currently operating all five of USSEs blast furnaces. We expect our Tubular operations to remain profitable in the first quarter. However, results are expected to decrease from the fourth quarter as the benefits of increased shipments are expected to be offset by increased costs as we continue to increase production to meet increased order rates, as well as the absence of $10 million of favorable fourth quarter items related to favorable effects of LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Seamless and welded tubular product prices are expected to improve throughout the quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to decrease as compared to the fourth quarter due to a higher proportion of welded tubular product shipments. We expect increased operating rates at all of our pipe facilities in the first quarter, most notably our welded pipe facility in East Texas. These expected increases should also benefit our Flat rolled operations that supply substrate requirements to our welded pipe facilities. Accounting Standards In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (FAS 167). FAS 167 is a revision to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, and amends the consolidation guidance for variable interest entities. Additionally, FAS 167 will require additional disclosures about involvement with variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure due to that involvement. FAS 167 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 167 will result in the deconsolidation of certain of our current variable interest entities, including, Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC due to the addition of the power criteria in paragraph 14 of FAS 167. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 810, Consolidations Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities, to incorporate FAS 167. In June 2009, the FASB issued FAS No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets (FAS 166). FAS 166 is a revision to FAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, and will require more information about transfer of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and enhanced disclosures when companies have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. Additionally, FAS 166 eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity. FAS 166 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 166 will result in any Receivables Purchase Agreement transactions being accounted for as secured borrowing transactions as of January 1, 2010. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, to incorporate FAS 166. See note 19 for further details of our accounts receivable facility. 81 Table of Contents Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage our market and exchange rate risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain commodity or currency transactions. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the transaction is settled. Once the transaction is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. For further information regarding derivative instruments see Notes 1 and 15 to the Financial Statements. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, through USSE and USSC, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the euro, the Serbian dinar and the Canadian dollar. U. S. Steel historically has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. U. S. Steel has not elected to use hedge accounting for these contracts. Foreign currency derivative instruments have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in net interest and other financial costs. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sales contracts for U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $185 million and $363 million, respectively). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2009 euro forward rates would result in a $19 million charge to income. The fair value of our derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs, which are defined as significant other observable inputs. The inputs used include quotes from counterparties that are corroborated with market sources. Future foreign currency impacts will depend upon changes in currencies, the extent to which we engage in derivatives transactions and the balance of the Intercompany Loan. The amount and timing of such borrowings or repayments on the Intercompany Loan will depend upon profits and cash flows of our international operations, future international investments and financing activities, all of which will be impacted by market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices and foreign exchange rates. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of our business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and zinc, tin and other nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for our products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel has made forward physical purchases to manage exposure to price risk related to the purchases of natural gas and certain non ferrous metals used in the production process. Historically, the forward physical purchase contracts for natural gas and nonferrous metals have qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 815. However, 82 Table of Contents due to reduced natural gas consumption in 2009, we net settled some of our excess natural gas purchase contracts for certain facilities. Therefore, the remaining contracts for natural gas at those facilities no longer met the exemption criteria and were therefore subject to mark to market accounting. As of December 31, 2009, there are no longer natural gas purchase contracts subject to mark to market accounting. Fixed price forward physical purchase contracts entered into for 2010 to partially manage our exposure to natural gas price risk qualify for the normal purchases normal sales exemption. The fair value of our natural gas derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs. The inputs used include forward prices derived from the New York Mercantile Exchange. A 10 percent decrease in natural gas prices for open derivative instruments as of December 31, 2009, would not result in a material charge to income. U. S. Steel held commodity contracts for natural gas that qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption with a total notional value of approximately $44 million at December 31, 2009. Total commodity contracts for natural gas represent approximately 12 percent of our expected North American natural gas requirements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of our non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent increase/decrease in year end 2009 and 2008 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase inFair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 26 $ 0 $ 23 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 4,004 $ 172 $ 2,650 $ 106 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008. (d) For additional information see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on the yield on our public debt where available or current borrowing rates available for financings with similar terms and maturities. For additional information see Note 16 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of our debt portfolio would unfavorably affect our results and cash flows only to the extent that we elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt included 200 million ($288 million) of borrowing under a floating rate revolving credit facility, the fair value of which is not affected by interest rate declines. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 83 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies. Property, Plant and Equipment Additions For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Employees As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had approximately 24,000 employees in North America and approximately 19,000 in Europe. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) that expire in September 2012. The 2008 CBAs resulted in wage increases ranging from $0.65 to $1.00 per hour as of the effective date. Each subsequent September 1 thereafter during the contract term, employees will receive a four percent wage increase. The 2008 CBAs also require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance during the contract period. In early 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the 2009 contribution until 2012. The 2008 CBAs also provide for pension and other benefit enhancements for both current employees and retirees (see Notes 17 and 20 to the Financial Statements). A small number of workers at these facilities, as well as workers at our transportation operations are covered by agreements with the USW or other unions that have varying expiration dates. At USSC the collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Lake Erie Works has expired and a successor agreement has not been reached. The collective bargaining agreement with the USW covering employees at Hamilton Works expires in July 2010. All of the agreements in North America contain no strike clauses. In Europe, most represented employees at USSK are represented by the OZ Metalurg union and are covered by an agreement that expires in March 2012. Represented employees at USSS are covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires in December 2012. Wage increases have been agreed to for all years for both USSE agreements. Available Information U. S. Steels Internet address is www.ussteel.com. We post our annual report on Form 10 K, our quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, our proxy statement and our interactive data files to our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also post all press releases and earnings releases to our web site. 27 Table of Contents All other filings with the SEC are available via a direct link on the U. S. Steel web site to the SECs web site, www.sec.gov. Also available on the U. S. Steel web site are U. S. Steels Corporate Governance Principles, our Code of Ethical Business Conduct and the charters of the Audit Committee, the Compensation & Organization Committee and the Corporate Governance & Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors. These documents and the Annual Report on Form 10 K are also available in print to any shareholder who requests them. Such requests should be sent to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, United States Steel Corporation, 600 Grant Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 2800 (telephone: 412 433 2998). U. S. Steel does not intend to incorporate the contents of any web site or the documents referred to in the immediately preceeding paragraph into this document. Other Information Information on net sales, depreciation, capital expenditures and income from operations by reportable segment and for Other Businesses and on net sales and assets by geographic area are set forth in Note 3 to the Financial Statements. For significant operating data for U. S. Steel for each of the last five years, see Five Year Operating Summary (Unaudited) on pages F 63 and F 64. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Concerning the Current Global Recession All segments of our business have been impacted by the global recession and such impacts have created certain new risks and have also affected the other risks set forth below. U. S. Steel and its end product markets continue to be impacted by the global recession. For full year 2009, U. S. Steel reported a net loss of $1,401 million, or $10.42 per diluted share. Raw steel production in our North American Flat rolled segment averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 79 percent and 83 percent of cabability in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and our European USSE segment averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009 as compared to 86 percent and 92 percent of capability in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our Tubular segment shipped 657 thousand tons in 2009 as compared to 1.95 million tons in 2008. Despite some signs of economic recovery, we expect to report an overall operating loss for the first quarter of 2010. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which experienced substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels and this has led to a substantial decrease in oil and gas drilling activity, which has resulted in lower customer demand for the products of our Tubular segment. U. S. Steels operating levels will remain at depressed levels until our customers demand increases. In addition to reduced demand in our end product markets, we believe that some of our customers are experiencing difficulty in obtaining credit or maintaining their ability to qualify for trade credit insurance, resulting in a further reduction in purchases and an increase in our credit risk exposure. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. In addition, the expiration of governmental stimulus programs may have a negative impact on the levels of customer demand. In response to the global recession, we announced that we had substantially reduced our planned capital expenditures for 2009 to conserve liquidity. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long 28 Table of Contents term strategic importance, as we focused on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Unless the current economic situation continues to improve, we may have to delay investments of long term strategic importance. It could also become more expensive to complete these deferred investments at a later date. Moreover, delaying these long term strategic investments could have a negative impact on our cost structure and market position. U. S. Steel is incurring and will continue to incur facility carrying costs when production capacity is temporarily idled and increased costs as we resume production at idled facilities. During 2009, U. S. Steel temporarily idled significant production facilities in all three of our segments in response to economic conditions and customer demand. We continue to incur certain facility carrying costs which could not be eliminated even though the facilities were idled, resulting in higher unit production costs for all three segments. For example, during 2009 in our North American Flat rolled and Tubular segments, we incurred approximately $735 million and $80 million of idled facility costs, respectively. Furthermore, we transferred raw materials to operating locations, and delayed discretionary repair and maintenance and other expenditures while facilities were temporarily idled to minimize costs and preserve liquidity during the idling period. As we restart facilities, we are incurring increased costs to replenish raw material inventories, prepare the previously idled facilities for operation, perform the required repair and maintenance, complete capital projects and prepare employees to safely return to work and resume production responsibilities. U. S. Steel may need to substantially increase working capital when market conditions and order levels improve. As our business deteriorated, we reduced working capital by $1.3 billion in 2009. When market conditions and order levels improve we may have to increase our working capital substantially, as it will take several months for new orders to be translated into cash receipts. In general, availability under our 2007 five year $750 million revolving credit facility, which was amended and restated in 2009, (Amended Credit Agreement) is limited to a monthly borrowing base of certain eligible domestic inventory and availability under our Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) is limited to eligible receivables. We may not have sufficient eligible inventory and receivables to borrow the amounts we need. U. S. Steel may face increased risks of customer and supplier defaults. There is an increased risk of insolvency and other credit related issues of our customers and suppliers, including their need to increase working capital as their businesses improve. We believe some of our customers and suppliers may not have sufficient credit available to them, which could delay payments from customers, result in increased customer defaults and cause our suppliers to delay filling, or to be unable to fill, our needs. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity investees are also being affected by the current global recession. U. S. Steels joint ventures and other equity affiliates are also engaged in the production of steelmaking raw materials and finishing of flat rolled and tubular products. As such they face many of the same issues we do. Since these entities are smaller than U. S. Steel, they may have fewer resources available to them to respond to the current global recession. Risk Factors Concerning the Steel Industry Steel consumption is highly cyclical, and worldwide overcapacity in the steel industry and the availability of alternative products have resulted in intense competition, which may have an adverse effect on profitability and cash flow, especially during periods of economic weakness. Steel consumption is highly cyclical and generally follows economic and industrial conditions both worldwide and in regional markets. The steel industry has historically been characterized by excess global supply, which has led to substantial price decreases during periods of economic weakness. Substitute materials are increasingly available for many steel products, which further reduces demand for steel. 29 Table of Contents Rapidly growing supply in China and other developing economies may grow faster than real demand in those economies, which may result in additional excess worldwide capacity and falling steel prices. Over the last several years, steel consumption in China and other developing economies has increased at a rapid pace. Steel companies have responded by rapidly increasing steel production capability in those countries and published reports state that further capacity increases are likely. Steel production, especially in China, has expanded rapidly and appears to be well in excess of Chinas home market demand. Because China is now the largest worldwide steel producer by a significant margin, any excess Chinese supply could have a major impact on world steel trade and prices if this excess and subsidized production is exported to other markets. Since the Chinese steel industry is largely government owned, it has not been as adversely impacted by the current global recession, and it can make production and sales decisions for non market reasons. Increased imports of steel products into North America and Europe could negatively affect steel prices and demand levels and reduce our profitability. Steel imports to the United States accounted for an estimated 22 percent of the domestic steel market in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 22 percent in 2007. Foreign competitors may have lower labor costs, and some are owned, controlled or subsidized by their governments, which allows their production and pricing decisions to be influenced by political and economic policy considerations as well as prevailing market conditions. Imports of tubular products to the United States increased significantly beginning in 2008. Oil country tubular goods (OCTG) imports accounted for a large share of the growth, as they have more than doubled over 2007 levels. Imports of OCTG from China registered the most dramatic increase as they grew from 900 thousand tons in 2007 to nearly 2.3 million tons in 2008. The U.S. market experienced a surge in tubular imports in the second half of 2008 that resulted in record OCTG inventories by the end of the year, which affected demand in 2009 and is continuing to affect demand in 2010. Chinese imports of seamless standard line and pressure pipe increased by more than 290 percent in the three months after the filing of antidumping and counterveiling duty petitions in September 2009, as compared to the three months prior to the filing. Imports of flat rolled steel to Canada accounted for an estimated 35 percent of the Canadian market for flat rolled steel products in 2009, 24 percent in 2008 and 27 percent in 2007. Total imports of flat rolled carbon steel products to the EU27 (the 27 countries currently comprising the European Union (EU)) were 15 percent of the EU market in 2009, 19 percent in 2008 and 17 percent in 2007. Increases in future levels of imported steel to North America and Europe could reduce future market prices and demand levels for steel products produced in those markets. Imports into the United States, Canada and the EU have often violated the international trade laws of these jurisdictions. While in some cases U. S. Steel and others have been successful in obtaining relief under these laws, in other circumstances relief has not been received. When received, such relief is generally subject to automatic or discretionary recision or reduction. There can be no assurance that any such relief will be obtained or continued in the future or that such relief as obtained will be adequate. Limited availability of raw materials and energy may constrain operating levels and reduce profit margins. U. S. Steel and other steel producers have periodically been faced with problems in obtaining sufficient raw materials and energy in a timely manner due to delays or defaults by suppliers, shortages or transportation problems (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or disruption of rail lines, waterways or natural gas transmission lines), resulting in production curtailments. We do not produce enough coke to meet our global requirements and our coke production capability is likely to decline over the next several years given that some of our existing coke batteries in the United States are approaching the end of their useful lives. As a result, we may be further exposed to risks concerning pricing and availability of coke from third parties. USSE is dependent upon availability of natural gas produced in Russia and transported through Ukraine. USSE experienced natural gas supply curtailments during Russias suspension of natural gas shipments to Europe in January 2009. Resulting steel production curtailments and escalated costs have reduced profit margins, and any future curtailments and escalated costs may reduce profit margins. 30 Table of Contents Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs. Steel producers in the United States are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Environmental laws and regulations, particularly the Clean Air Act, could result in substantially increased capital, operating and compliance costs. International environmental requirements vary. While standards in the EU, Canada and Japan are generally comparable to U.S. standards, other nations, particularly China, have substantially lesser requirements that may give competitors in such nations a competitive advantage. Greenhouse gas policies could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create carbon dioxide (CO2). This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States has passed a bill in the House of Representatives and a bill has been introduced in the Senate. For a discussion of these, see PART I Business Environmental Matters. We cannot predict the final requirements that may be adopted in the United States and Canada, or the form of future actions that may be taken by the EU; however, such limitations could entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources, which could have a negative effect on results of operations and cash flows. Since mini mill production does not involve the same chemical reactions as integrated production, mini mills may have a competitive advantage. Also, since China and many other developing nations have not instituted greenhouse gas regulations, and since past international agreements such as the Kyoto Protocol provided exemptions and lesser standards for developing nations, we may also be at a competitive disadvantage with certain foreign steel producers. Many of our customers in the United States, Canada and Europe may experience similar impacts, which could result in decreased demand for our products. Risk Factors Concerning U. S. Steel Legacy Obligations Our retiree health care and retiree life insurance plan costs, most of which are unfunded obligations, and our pension plan costs in North America are higher than those of many of our competitors. These plans create a competitive disadvantage and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. We maintain defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans covering most of our North American employees and former employees upon their retirement. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 129,000 current employees, retirees and beneficiaries are participating in the plans to receive pension and or medical benefits. At December 31, 2009, on an accounting basis, U. S. Steels retiree medical and life insurance plans were underfunded $2.9 billion and our pension plans were underfunded by $1.7 billion. Most of our employee benefits are subject to collective bargaining agreements with unionized workforces and will be subject to future negotiations. Minimum contributions to domestic qualified pension plans are controlled under ERISA and other government regulations. Minimum contributions to U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) pension plans are governed by an agreement entered into by Stelco Inc. (Stelco) and the Province of Ontario that U. S. Steel assumed in conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco. This agreement requires defined annual contributions until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. Substantial cash contributions may be required to fund these benefit plans. U. S. Steel contributes to a multiemployer plan in the United States covering pensions for USW represented workers formerly employed by National Steel and workers hired after May 2003. We have legal and contractual requirements for future funding of this plan, which may have a negative effect on our cash flows. The collective 31 Table of Contents bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) increased our required contributions to this plan from $1.80 to $2.65 per hour. In addition, funding requirements for participants could increase as a result of any underfunding of this plan. Total costs for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $420 million in 2010, a decrease of $40 million from 2009, while cash contributions for these benefit plans are expected to be approximately $570 million in 2010, exclusive of any voluntary contributions we might choose to make. The turmoil in financial markets during 2008 has led to significant declines in the value of equity investments that are held by the trusts under our pension plans and the trust to pay for retiree health care and life insurance benefits. While some of these losses were recovered in 2009, the 2008 losses have contributed to the underfunded position at December 31, 2009. We may be required or may choose to make substantial contributions to these plans. Many domestic and international competitors do not provide defined benefit retiree health care and life insurance and pension plans, and other international competitors operate in jurisdictions with government sponsored health care plans that may offer them a cost advantage. Benefit obligations under our plans are not tied to operating rates; therefore, our costs are not expected to decline as a result of the global recession or any other future economic downturns. We have higher environmental remediation costs than our competitors. This creates a competitive disadvantage and negatively affects our results of operations and cash flows. U. S. Steel is involved in numerous remediation projects at currently operating facilities, facilities that have been closed or sold to unrelated parties and other sites where material generated by U. S. Steel was deposited. In addition, there are numerous other former operating or disposal sites that could become the subject of remediation. For example, we recorded a charge of $49 million in 2009 in connection with the expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works bringing the total liability for this site to $66 million as of December 31, 2009. Environmental remediation costs and related cash requirements of many of our competitors may be substantially less than ours. Many international competitors do not face similar laws in the jurisdictions where they operate. Many U.S. competitors have substantially shorter operating histories than we do, resulting in less exposure for environmental remediation. Competitors that have obtained relief under bankruptcy laws may have been released from certain environmental obligations that existed prior to the bankruptcy filing. Other Risk Factors Applicable to U. S. Steel Unplanned equipment outages and other unforeseen disruptions may reduce our results of operations. Our steel production depends on the operation of critical pieces of equipment, such as blast furnaces, casters and hot strip mills. It is possible that we could experience prolonged periods of reduced production due to equipment failures at our facilities or those of our key suppliers. It is also possible that operations may be disrupted due to other unforeseen circumstances such as power outages, explosions, fires, floods, accidents and severe weather conditions. Production at USSE was curtailed in January 2009 due to the suspension of natural gas deliveries to Europe from Russia transported through Ukraine and we remain vulnerable to this risk. Availability of raw materials and delivery of products to customers could be affected by logistical disruptions (such as shortages of barges, ocean vessels, rail cars or trucks, or unavailability of rail lines or of locks on the Great Lakes or other bodies of water). To the extent that lost production could not be compensated for at unaffected facilities and depending on the length of the outage, our sales and our unit production costs could be adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by volatility in prices for raw materials, energy, and steel. Approximately 60 percent of U. S. Steels Flat rolled segment sales in the United States are based on sales contracts with volume commitments and durations of at least one quarter, while lesser percentages of Tubular and USSE segment sales are made pursuant to such contacts. These contracts generally have a fixed price or a price 32 Table of Contents that will fluctuate with changes in a defined index and do not always have firm volume commitments. During periods of rapid escalation of raw materials, energy and other costs such as was experienced in 2008, U. S. Steel may not be able to recover these cost increases from customers with existing fixed price agreements. Conversely, some purchase contracts require annual commitments and in periods of rapid decline, such as 2009, U. S. Steel may be faced with having agreed to purchase raw materials and energy at prices that are above the then current market price or in greater volumes than required. If steel prices decline, our profit margins on market based indexed contracts and spot business will be reduced. Declines in the production levels of our major customers could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Our Flat rolled and USSE segments sell to the automotive, service center, converter, appliance and construction related industries, all of which reported substantially lower customer demand in 2009 due to the ongoing global recession. Prices for both oil and natural gas have fallen dramatically from their 2008 levels, leading to a reduction in oil and gas exploration and development, which in turn has resulted in lower customer demand for our Tubular segment. The duration of the recession and the trajectory of the recovery for these industries may have a significant impact on U. S. Steel. The terms of our indebtedness contain provisions that may limit our flexibility. The Amended Credit Agreement is now secured by a lien on a majority of our domestic inventory and certain of our accounts receivable and includes a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant that applies when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than $112.5 million. Because the Amended Credit Agreement was undrawn throughout 2009, this covenant was not applicable, but based on the four quarters ended December 31, 2009, we would not have met this covenant. The value or levels of inventory may decrease or we may not be able to meet this covenant in the future, and either or both of these situations would limit our ability to borrow under the Amended Credit Agreement. We also amended our $500 million RPA, which among other things increased pricing, reserve factors and percentages; changed the definition of Eligible Receivables, which resulted in an increase in the amount of our receivables ineligible for purchase; and added a change of control provision. Reductions in accounts receivable would limit our ability to sell receivables. In general, availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is limited to a monthly borrowing base for certain eligible domestic inventory. Further inventory reductions could limit availability to less than the potential $750 million. If availability under the Amended Credit Agreement falls below the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million, we would also be subject to a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. This may be a particular problem when market conditions and order levels improve and U. S. Steel needs the liquidity to rebuild working capital. We have granted the lenders under the Amended Credit Agreement a secured position in our most liquid assets, which may be a detriment to other creditors. The Amended Credit Agreement, our Senior Convertible Notes issued in 2009 and our $1.6 billion of Senior Notes issued in 2007 also contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks. Additionally, the repayment of amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement and repurchase of the Senior Convertible Notes and Senior Notes is required upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. The Amended Credit Agreement, the Senior Convertible Notes and the RPA have provisions that certain defaults under a material debt obligation could cause a default under the Amended Credit Agreement or the Senior Convertible Notes or termination of the RPA. These terms may affect our liquidity, our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. Rating agencies may downgrade our credit ratings, which would make it more difficult for us to raise capital and would increase our financial costs. All three major ratings agencies have downgraded the ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt in the last year. This has caused increases in borrowing costs under our credit facilities. We have been required to and may be forced to provide additional collateral or financial assurance for environmental closure and other presently unsecured obligations. These and any future downgrades in our credit ratings may make raising capital more difficult, may increase the cost and affect the terms of future borrowings, may affect the terms under which we purchase goods and services and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. 33 Table of Contents Change in control clauses in our financial and labor agreements grant the other parties to those agreements rights to accelerate obligations and to terminate or extend our labor agreements. Upon the occurrence of change in control events specified in our Senior Notes, Amended Credit Agreement, Senior Convertible Notes and various other contracts and leases, the holders of our indebtedness may require us to immediately repurchase or repay that debt on less than favorable terms. Additionally, the 2008 CBAs give the USW the right to either terminate or extend the collective bargaining agreements for an additional four years. A change of control is generally defined to include any of the following: (a) the acquisition by a person or group of at least 35 percent of our common stock, (b) a merger in which holders of our common stock own less than a majority of the equity in the resulting entity, or (c) replacement of a majority of the members of our Board of Directors by persons who were not nominated by our current directors. Our operations expose us to uncertainties and risks in the countries in which we operate, which could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our U.S. operations are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the United States, which if changed could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, inflation, increased regulation, limitations on exports of energy and raw materials, and trade remedies. Actions taken by the U.S. government could affect our results of operations and cash flow. For example, certain health care reform proposals could increase the cost of our health insurance plans for active employees and retirees and negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. USSK, located in Slovakia, USSS, located in Serbia, and USSC, located in Canada, constitute 39 percent of our global raw steel production capability. All of them are subject to economic conditions and political factors in the countries in which they are located, and USSK is additionally subject to economic conditions and political factors associated with the EU and the euro currency. Changes in any of these economic conditions or political factors could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. Political factors include, but are not limited to, taxation, nationalization, inflation, government instability, civil unrest, increased regulation and quotas, tariffs and other protectionist measures. Any future foreign acquisitions could expose us to similar risks. We are subject to significant foreign currency risks, which could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. Our foreign operations accounted for approximately 30 percent of our net sales in 2009. The financial condition and results of operations of USSK, USSS and USSC are reported in various foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. The appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these foreign currencies could have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. In addition, the acquisition of USSC was funded from the United States, as well as through the reinvestment of undistributed foreign earnings from USSE, creating intercompany monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currencies of the entities involved, which can have a non cash impact on income when they are remeasured at the end of each quarter. An $892 million U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary was the primary exposure at December 31, 2009. Any future foreign acquisitions would expose us to similar risks. Our business requires substantial expenditures for debt service, obligations, capital investment, operating leases and maintenance that we may be unable to fund. With $3,364 million of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2009, we have significant debt service requirements. Our operations are capital intensive. For the five year period ended December 31, 2009, total capital expenditures were $3.3 billion. At December 31, 2009, our contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment totaled $152 million and we were obligated to make aggregate lease payments of $173 million under operating leases. 34 Table of Contents In addition to capital expenditures and lease payments, we spend significant amounts for maintenance of raw material, steelmaking and steel finishing facilities. As of December 31, 2009, we had contingent obligations consisting of indemnity obligations under active surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit totaling approximately $173 million, operating lease obligations of approximately $26 million that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, and unconditional purchase obligations, including take or pay arrangements, totalling approximately $11.5 billion. Our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flow or external financing sources may not be available in amounts sufficient, to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. The limitations under our Amended Credit Agreement and RPA, described above, may limit our availability to draw upon these facilities. We intend indefinitely to reinvest undistributed foreign earnings outside the United States; however, if we need to repatriate funds in the future to satisfy our liquidity needs, the tax consequences would reduce income and cash flow. U. S. Steel is exposed to uninsured losses. Our insurance coverage against catastrophic casualty and business interruption exposures contains certain common exclusions, substantial deductibles and self insured retentions. Our collective bargaining agreements may limit our flexibility. Most hourly employees of U. S. Steels flat rolled, tubular, cokemaking and iron ore pellet facilities in the United States are covered by the 2008 CBAs, which expire in September 2012. These agreements contain provisions that prohibit us from pursuing any North American transaction involving steel or steel related assets without the consent of the USW, grant the USW a right to bid on any sale of one or more facilities covered by the 2008 CBAs, require us to make reasonable and necessary capital expenditures to maintain the competitive status of our domestic facilities and require mandatory pre funding of a trust for retiree health care and life insurance. These agreements also restrict our ability to trade, sell or use foreign produced coke and iron ore in North America, and further require that the ratio of non USW employees to USW employees at our domestic facilities not exceed one to five. While other domestic integrated unionized steel producers have similar requirements in their agreements with the USW, some foreign and non union domestic producers are not subject to such requirements. We are at risk of labor stoppages. The collective bargaining agreement covering the Lake Erie Works expired in July 2009 and there has been a work stoppage since that time. The collective bargaining agreement at the Hamilton Works expires in July 2010, and we may not enter into a successor agreement prior to that time. There are risks associated with past acquisitions, as well as any acquisitions we may make in the future. Our acquisitions of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) and Stelco created goodwill on our balance sheet which totaled $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2009, and which exposes us to the risk of future impairment charges. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007 and our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined based on consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or compound annual growth rate, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. The assumptions used will have a large impact on the conclusions reached in future tests. As of 35 Table of Contents December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively. The Lone Star acquisition increased our tubular production capacity by more than 50 percent and the Stelco acquisition increased our North American steelmaking capability by 25 percent, thereby increasing our exposure to cyclical downturns in historically cyclical industries such as oil and gas, service center, conversion, automotive, construction and appliance. The success of any future acquisitions will depend substantially on the accuracy of our analysis concerning such businesses and our ability to complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, to finance such acquisitions and to integrate the acquired operations successfully with existing operations. If we are unable to integrate new operations successfully, our financial results and business reputation could suffer. Our acquisitions in 2007 involved purchase prices significantly higher than the prices we paid for our acquisitions in 2003. Such prices will make it more difficult to achieve adequate financial returns. Additional risks associated with acquisitions are the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which we have limited or no prior experience. International acquisitions may present unique challenges and increase the Companys exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations and countries. Antitrust and similar laws in foreign jurisdictions may prevent us from completing acquisitions. There are risks associated with existing and potential tax law and accounting requirements. In accordance with ASC Topic 740, we have not recognized a tax benefit for pre tax losses in jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance for accounting purposes. As a result, the pre tax losses associated with USSS and USSC do not provide any tax benefit for accounting purposes. Significant changes in the mix of pre tax results among the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material impact on our effective tax rate. President Obamas administration has proposed significant changes to U.S. tax law. Some of the proposed changes, such as the repeal of the last in first out (LIFO) inventory cost method, could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow if they are enacted. We may be subject to litigation, the disposition of which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flow in a particular period. Our profitability or cash flow in a particular period could be affected by an adverse ruling in any litigation currently pending in the courts or by litigation that may be filed against us in the future. For information regarding our current significant legal proceedings, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Provisions of Delaware Law, our governing documents and our rights plan may make a takeover of U. S. Steel more difficult. Certain provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our rights plan could make more difficult or delay our acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise and the removal of incumbent directors. These provisions are intended to discourage certain types of coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids, even though such a transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price. We may suffer employment losses, which could negatively affect our future performance. Approximately 570 of U. S. Steels North American based non represented employees retired in 2009 as part of a voluntary early retirement program and a significant number of those remaining are or will be eligible for retirement over the next several years. 36 Table of Contents Over the last few years we had intensified our recruitment, training and retention efforts so that we may continue to optimally staff our operations, but we instituted a freeze on hiring in early 2009 in response to the global economic recession. If we are unable to hire sufficient qualified replacements for those leaving, our future performance may be adversely impacted. With respect to our represented employees, we may be adversely impacted by the loss of employees who retired or obtained other employment during the time they were laid off or subject to a work stoppage such as currently exists at Lake Erie Works. The cost reduction actions taken in 2009 increased the number of personnel and organization changes and may increase the risk of internal control failures. We may experience difficulties implementing our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. We are currently implementing an ERP system to help us operate more efficiently. This is a complex project, which is expected to be implemented in several phases over the next several years. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP program without experiencing difficulties. In addition, the expected benefits of implementing the ERP system may not be realized or the costs of implementation may outweigh the realized benefits. We extended the implementation schedule in early 2009 to reduce near term costs. This action will delay the realization of benefits from this project and may add to final project costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 37 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES The following tables list U. S. Steels main properties, their locations and their products and services: North American Operations Property Location Products and Services Gary Works Gary, Indiana Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip mill plate; Coke Midwest Plant Portage, Indiana Sheets; Tin mill East Chicago Tin East Chicago, Indiana Tin mill Great Lakes Works Ecorse and River Rouge, Michigan Slabs; Sheets Mon Valley Works Irvin Plant West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Sheets Edgar Thomson Plant Braddock, Pennsylvania Slabs Fairless Plant Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania Galvanized sheets Clairton Plant Clairton, Pennsylvania Coke Granite City Works Granite City, Illinois Slabs; Sheets; Coke Lake Erie Works Nanticoke, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke Hamilton Works Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Slabs; Sheets; Coke; Bars Fairfield Works Fairfield, Alabama Slabs; Rounds; Sheets; Seamless Tubular USS POSCO Industries(a) Pittsburg, California Sheets; Tin mill PRO TEC Coating Company(a) Leipsic, Ohio Galvanized sheets Double Eagle Steel Coating Company(a) Dearborn, Michigan Galvanized sheets Double G Coatings Company, L.P.(a) Jackson, Mississippi Galvanized and Galvalume&reg; sheets Worthington Specialty Processing(a) Jackson, Canton and Taylor, Michigan Steel processing Feralloy Processing Company(a) Portage, Indiana Steel processing Chrome Deposit Corporation(a) Various Roll processing Acero Prime, S.R.L. de C.V.(a) San Luis Potosi and Ramos Arizpe, Mexico Steel processing; Warehousing Baycoat Limited Partnership(a) Hamilton, Ontario, Canada Steel processing D.C. Chrome Limited(a) Stony Creek, Ontario, Canada Roll processing Lorain Tubular Operations Lorain, Ohio Seamless Tubular Texas Operations Lone Star, Texas Welded Tubular Bellville Operations Bellville, Texas Welded Tubular Wheeling Machine Products Pine Bluff, Arkansas and Hughes Springs and Houston, Texas Tubular couplings Tubular Processing Services Houston, Texas Tubular processing Tubular Threading and Inspection Services Houston, Texas Tubular threading, inspection and storage services Fintube Technologies, Inc. Tulsa, Oklahoma and Monterrey, Mexico Specialty Welded Tubular United Spiral Pipe, LLC(a) Pittsburg, California Spiral Welded Tubular Minntac iron ore operations Mt. Iron, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Keetac iron ore operations Keewatin, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Hibbing Taconite Company(a) Hibbing, Minnesota Iron ore pellets Tilden Mining Company(a) Ishpeming, Michigan Iron ore pellets Transtar Alabama, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas Transportation services (railroad and barge operations) (a) Equity investee 38 Table of Contents Other Operations Property Location Products and Services U. S. Steel Koice Koice, Slovakia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Tubular; Coke; Radiators;Refractories U. S. Steel Serbia Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia Slabs; Sheets; Tin mill; Strip millplate; Limestone Apolo Tubulars S.A.(a) Lorena, Sao Paulo, Brazil Welded Tubular (a) Equity investee U. S. Steel and its predecessors (including Lone Star) have owned their properties for many years with no material adverse claims asserted. In the case of Great Lakes Works, Granite City Works, the Midwest Plant and Keetac iron ore operations acquired from National Steel in 2003; the Smederevo, Sabac and Kucevo, Serbia operations acquired by U. S. Steel in 2003; and the Lake Erie Works and Hamilton Works of U. S. Steel Canada acquired in 2007; U. S. Steel or its subsidiaries are the beneficiaries of bankruptcy laws and orders providing that properties are held free and clear of past liabilities. In addition, U. S. Steel or its predecessors obtained title insurance, local counsel opinions or similar protections when the major properties were initially acquired. The caster facility at Fairfield, Alabama is subject to a lease. The final lease payment is due in December 2012 and the lease term expires in June 2013, subject to additional extensions. A coke battery at Clairton, Pennsylvania is subject to a lease through 2012, at which time title will pass to U. S. Steel. At the Midwest Plant in Indiana, U. S. Steel has a supply agreement for various utility services with a company which owns a cogeneration facility located on U. S. Steel property. The Midwest Plant agreement expires in 2013. The headquarters office space in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania used by U. S. Steel is leased through 2018. For property, plant and equipment additions, including capital leases, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Cash Flows and Note 12 to the Financial Statements. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment. Certain of these matters are included below in this discussion. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the financial statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably. General Litigation In March 2008, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed a previous decision of the Indiana Utilitites Regulatory Commission involving a rate escalation provision in U. S. Steels electric power supply contract with Northern Indiana Public Service Company and a reserve of $45 million related to prior year effects was established in the first quarter of 2008. In June 2009, the Indiana Supreme Court overruled the Court of Appeals, and we reversed the reserve related to this litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel is vigorously defending these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. 39 Table of Contents On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. Asbestos Litigation As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active cases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. At December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 450 active cases involving approximately 3,050 plaintiffs. During 2009, settlements and dismissals resulted in the disposition of approximately 200 claims and U. S. Steel paid approximately $7 million in settlements. New filings added approximately 190 claims. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. Most of the claims filed in 2009, 2008 and 2007 involve individual or small groups of claimants. Historically, these claims against U. S. Steel fall into three major groups: (1) claims made by persons who allegedly were exposed to asbestos at U. S. Steel facilities (referred to as premises claims); (2) claims made by industrial workers allegedly exposed to products formerly manufactured by U. S. Steel; and (3) claims made under certain federal and general maritime laws by employees of former operations of U. S. Steel. In general, the only insurance available to U. S. Steel with respect to asbestos claims is excess casualty insurance, which has multi million dollar self insured retentions. To date, U. S. Steel has received minimal payments under these policies relating to asbestos claims. These asbestos cases allege a variety of respiratory and other diseases based on alleged exposure to asbestos. U. S. Steel is currently a defendant in cases in which a total of approximately 210 plaintiffs allege that they are suffering from mesothelioma. The potential for damages against defendants may be greater in cases in which the plaintiffs can prove mesothelioma. In many cases in which claims have been asserted against U. S. Steel, the plaintiffs have been unable to establish any causal relationship to U. S. Steel or our products or premises; however, with the decline in mass plaintiff cases the incidence of claimants actually alleging a claim against U. S. Steel is increasing. In addition, in many asbestos cases, the plaintiffs have been unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any identifiable injury or compensable loss at all; that any injuries that they have incurred did in fact result from alleged exposure to asbestos; or that such alleged exposure was in any way related to U. S. Steel or our products or premises. In every asbestos case in which U. S. Steel is named as a party, the complaints are filed against numerous named defendants and generally do not contain allegations regarding specific monetary damages sought. To the extent that any specific amount of damages is sought, the amount applies to claims against all named defendants and in no case is there any allegation of monetary damages against U. S. Steel. Historically, approximately 89 percent of the cases against U. S. Steel did not specify any damage amount or stated that the damages sought exceeded the amount required to establish jurisdiction of the court in which the case was filed. (Jurisdictional amounts generally range from $25,000 to $75,000.) U. S. Steel does not consider the amount of damages alleged, if any, in a complaint to be relevant in assessing our potential exposure to asbestos liabilities. The ultimate outcome of any 40 Table of Contents claim depends upon a myriad of legal and factual issues, including whether the plaintiff can prove actual disease, if any; actual exposure, if any, to U. S. Steel products; or the duration of exposure to asbestos, if any, on U. S. Steels premises. U. S. Steel has noted over the years that the form of complaint including its allegations, if any, concerning damages often depends upon the form of complaint filed by particular law firms and attorneys. Often the same damage allegation will be in multiple complaints regardless of the number of plaintiffs, the number of defendants, or any specific diseases or conditions alleged. U. S. Steel aggressively pursues grounds for the dismissal of U. S. Steel from pending cases and litigates cases to verdict where we believe litigation is appropriate. U. S. Steel also makes efforts to settle appropriate cases, especially mesothelioma cases, for reasonable, and frequently nominal, amounts. The following table shows activity with respect to asbestos litigation: Year ended December 31, OpeningNumber ofClaims ClaimsDismissed,Settled andResolved New Claims Closing Numberof Claims Amounts Paid toResolve Claims(in millions) 2007 3,700 1,230 530 3,000 $ 9 2008 3,000 400 450 3,050 $ 13 2009 3,050 200 190 3,040 $ 7 The amount U. S. Steel has accrued for pending asbestos claims is not material to U. S. Steels financial position. U. S. Steel does not accrue for unasserted asbestos claims because it is not possible to determine whether any loss is probable with respect to such claims or even to estimate the amount or range of any possible losses. The vast majority of pending claims against us allege so called premises liability based exposure on U. S. Steels current or former premises. These claims are made by an indeterminable number of people such as truck drivers, railroad workers, salespersons, contractors and their employees, government inspectors, customers, visitors and even trespassers. In most cases, the claimant also was exposed to asbestos in non U. S. Steel settings; the relative periods of exposure between U. S. Steel and non U. S. Steel settings vary with each claimant; and the strength or weakness of the causal link between U. S. Steel exposure and any injury vary widely. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition, although the resolution of such matters could significantly impact results of operations for a particular quarter. Among the factors considered in reaching this conclusion are: (1) that over the last several years, the total number of pending claims has declined; (2) that it has been many years since U. S. Steel employed maritime workers or manufactured or sold asbestos containing products; and (3) U. S. Steels history of trial outcomes, settlements and dismissals. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Environmental Proceedings The following is a summary of the proceedings of U. S. Steel that were pending or contemplated as of December 31, 2009, under federal and state environmental laws. Except as described herein, it is not possible to accurately predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. CERCLA Remediation Sites Claims under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and related state acts have been raised with respect to the cleanup of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to expedite the cleanup of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint and several. Because of various factors including the 41 Table of Contents ambiguity of the regulations, the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and cleanup costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, it is impossible to reasonably estimate U. S. Steels ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA. Projections, provided in the following paragraphs, of spending for and or timing of completion of specific projects are forward looking statements. These forward looking statements are based on certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the factors provided in the preceding paragraph. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future spending for, or timing of completion of, environmental projects may differ materially from what was stated in forward looking statements. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had been identified as a PRP at a total of 31 CERCLA sites where liability is not resolved. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that U. S. Steels liability for cleanup and remediation costs will be between $1 million and $5 million for 3 of these sites, will be between $100,000 and $1 million per site for 8 of these sites, and will be under $100,000 per site for 9 of these sites. At 2 other sites, management estimates U. S. Steels share in the future cleanup costs to be $32 million, although it is not possible to accurately predict the amount of final allocation of such costs. One site is known as the Municipal & Industrial Disposal Co. site in Elizabeth, Pennsylvania. In October 1991, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources placed the site on the Pennsylvania State Superfund list and began a Remedial Investigation, which was issued in 1997. U. S. Steel and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP) signed a Consent Order and Agreement on August 30, 2002, under which U. S. Steel is responsible for remediation of this site. In 2003 the Consent Order and Agreement became final. U. S. Steel has completed the remedial design for this site and it is being reviewed by PADEP. The other site is the former Duluth Works, which was listed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) under the Minnesota Environmental Response and Liability Act on its Permanent List of Priorities. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has included the Duluth Works site with the St. Louis River Interlake Duluth Tar site on EPAs National Priorities List. The Duluth Works cleanup has proceeded since 1989. U. S. Steel has prepared a conceptual habitat enhancement plan (HEP) that includes measures to address contaminated sediments in the St. Louis River Estuary. MPCA (on behalf of EPA) has completed its second five year review for the site. As a result, additional data collection will be required to address data gaps identified in the five year review and corrective measures will be required to address the recently discovered areas of contamination on the upland property. Study, investigation and oversight costs along with implementation of corrective measures on the upland property and implementation of the HEP are currently estimated at $26 million. In addition, there are 9 sites related to U. S. Steel where information requests have been received or there are other indications that U. S. Steel may be a PRP under CERCLA, but where sufficient information is not presently available to confirm the existence of liability or to make any judgment as to the amount thereof. Other Remediation Activities There are 45 additional sites where remediation is being sought under other environmental statutes, both federal and state, or where private parties are seeking remediation through discussions or litigation. Based on currently available information, which is in many cases preliminary and incomplete, management believes that liability for cleanup and remediation costs in connection with 12 of these sites will be under $100,000 per site, another 18 sites have potential costs between $100,000 and $1 million per site, and 8 sites may involve remediation costs between $1 million and $5 million per site. As described below, costs for remediation, investigation, restoration or compensation are estimated to be in excess of $5 million per site at 4 sites and in excess of $10 million per site at 1 sites. Potential costs associated with remediation at the remaining three sites are not presently determinable. Gary Works On January 26, 1998, pursuant to an action filed by the EPA in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana titled United States of America v. USX, U. S. Steel entered into a consent decree with EPA which resolved alleged violations of the Clean Water Act National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit at Gary Works and provides for a sediment remediation project for a section of the Grand Calumet River that runs through Gary Works. As of December 31, 2009, project costs have amounted to $60 million. U. S. Steel completed additional dredging in 2007, and submitted a Dredge Completion Report to EPA in May 2008. Although further dredging is not expected, $1.0 million is accrued for possible additional work that 42 Table of Contents may be required to complete the project and obtain EPA approval. The Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU) which received dredged materials from the Grand Calumet River could be used for containment of approved material from other corrective measures conducted at Gary Works pursuant to an Administrative Order on Consent (1998) for corrective action. CAMU maintenance and wastewater treatment costs are anticipated to be an additional $872,000 through December 2011. In 1998, U. S. Steel also entered into a consent decree with the public trustees, which resolves liability for natural resource damages on the same section of the Grand Calumet River. U. S. Steel, following EPA approval of the Dredge Completion Report, will pay the public trustees $1.0 million for ecological monitoring costs. In addition, U. S. Steel is obligated to perform, and has initiated, ecological restoration in this section of the Grand Calumet River. The costs required to complete the ecological restoration work are estimated to be $835,000. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects based on the estimated remaining costs was $3.7 million at December 31, 2009. At Gary Works, U. S. Steel has agreed to close three hazardous waste disposal sites: D5, along with an adjacent solid waste disposal unit, Terminal Treatment Plant (TTP) Area; T2; and D2 combined with a portion of the Refuse Area, where a solid waste disposal unit overlaps with the hazardous waste disposal unit. The sites are located on plant property. U. S. Steel has submitted a closure plan to the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) for D2 and the known tar areas of the Refuse Area. U. S. Steel has proposed that the remainder of the Refuse Area be addressed as a Solid Waste Management Unit (SWMU) under corrective action. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a revised closure plan for T2 and separate closure plans for D5 and the TTP Area. IDEM approved the closure plans for D5 and T2 on October 15, 2009 and December 1, 2009 respectively. Implementation of both plans is expected to begin in 2010. The related accrued liability for estimated costs to close each of the hazardous waste sites and perform groundwater monitoring prior to closure is $5.8 million for D5 and TTP, $3.1 million for T2 and $10.9 million for D2 including a portion of the Refuse Area, as of December 31, 2009. On October 23, 1998, EPA issued a final Administrative Order on Consent addressing Corrective Action for SWMUs throughout Gary Works. This order requires U. S. Steel to perform a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Facility Investigation (RFI), a Corrective Measure Study (CMS) and Corrective Measure Implementation at Gary Works. Reports of field investigation findings for Phase I work plans have been submitted to EPA. Four self implementing interim measures have been completed. Through December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had spent approximately $31.2 million for the studies, work plans, field investigations and self implementing interim measures. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval for a perimeter groundwater monitoring plan and is developing a proposal for a corrective measure to address impacted sediments in the West Grand Calumet Lagoon. In addition, U. S. Steel has submitted a sampling and analysis plan for the Solid Waste Management Areas east of the Vessel Slip Turning Basin, and a portion of the sediments behind the East Breakwall. U. S. Steel has begun operation of a full scale groundwater treatment system approved by EPA as a Self Implementing Stabilization Measure to address benzene impacted groundwater east of the vessel slip, and continues to operate a seasonal groundwater treatment system near the coke plant. The costs for the above mentioned activities are estimated to be $15.1 million. U. S. Steel has submitted a proposal to EPA seeking approval to implement corrective measures necessary to address soil contamination at Gary Works. U. S. Steel estimates the minimum cost of the corrective measures for soil contamination to be approximately $3.5 million. Closure costs for the CAMU are estimated to be an additional $6.1 million. Until the remaining Phase I work and Phase II field investigations are completed, it is impossible to assess what additional expenditures will be necessary for Corrective Action projects at Gary Works. In total, the accrued liability for the above projects was $24.7 million as of December 31, 2009, based on the estimated remaining costs. In October 1996, U. S. Steel was notified by IDEM, acting as lead trustee, that IDEM and the U.S. Department of the Interior had concluded a preliminary investigation of potential injuries to natural resources related to releases of hazardous substances from various municipal and industrial sources along the east branch of the Grand Calumet River and Indiana Harbor Canal. U. S. Steel agreed to pay to the public trustees $20.5 million over a five year period for restoration costs, plus $1.0 million in assessment costs. A Consent Decree memorializing this settlement was entered on the record by the court and thereafter became effective April 1, 2005. U. S. Steel has paid our entire share of the assessment costs and the restoration costs to the public trustees. On November 26, 2007, IDEM issued a Notice of Violation (NOV) alleging three pushing violations and one door violation on the No. 2 Battery that were to have occurred on July 11, 2007. On December 20, 2007, IDEM made a verbal penalty demand of $123,000 to resolve these alleged violations. U. S. Steel provided written responses to the NOVs. Negotiations regarding these NOVs are ongoing. 43 Table of Contents On October 3, 2007, November 26, 2007, March 2, 2008 and March 18, 2008, IDEM issued NOVs alleging opacity limitation violations from the coke plant and Blast Furnaces Nos. 4 and 8. To date, no penalty demand has been made by IDEM regarding these NOVs. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating resolution of these NOVs with IDEM. On July 3, 2008, EPA Region V issued a Notice of Violation/Finding of Violation (NOV/FOV) alleging violations resulting from a multi media inspection conducted in May 2007 and subsequent information collection requests pursuant to Section 114 of the Clean Air Act. These alleged violations include those currently being prosecuted by IDEM that are identified above. Other alleged violations include the reline of No. 4 Blast Furnace in 1990 without a New Source Review/Prevention of Significant Deterioration permit, and opacity limit excursions from hot iron transfer cars, slag skimming, slag pits, and the blast furnace casting house. The NOV/FOV also alleges violations relating to hydrochloric acid pickling, blast furnace relief valves and blast furnace flares. While a penalty demand is expected, EPA Region V has not yet made such a demand. Since issuing the NOV/FOV, EPA Region V has issued additional Section 114 information requests to Gary Works. U. S. Steel has responded to the requests and is currently negotiating resolution of the NOV/FOV and other request issues with EPA Region V and IDEM. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice On February 18, 2009, U. S. Steel received a letter from IDEM alleging that Gary Works was culpable for an ambient air quality exceedance for PM10 at the IITRI Monitoring Site. U. S. Steel responded to the letter on March 13, 2009. U. S. Steel met with IDEM on April 28, 2009 to resolve the issue. If Gary Works is determined to be culpable, U. S. Steel may be required to install and maintain two additional on site PM10 monitoring stations per the December 2006 Air Agreed Order. U. S. Steel continues to discuss the matter with IDEM. On April 13, 2009, Gary Works received a Notice of Violation from EPA Region 5 for alleged violations for New Source Review for reline of No. 13/14 during 2004 2005. U. S. Steel continues to meet with IDEM and EPA to negotiate resolution of the NOV. EPA has indicated that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. On August 20, 2009. Gary Works received an NOV and proposed Order alleging that Gary Works violated its NOx Trading Budget Allocations in 2006 ozone season. IDEM orginally proposed a penalty of $87,500. Because Gary Works corrected the error from its own allocations and no excess emissions occurred as a result of the NOx accounting error, IDEM agreed to reduce the penalty to $35,000. U. S. Steel verbally agreed to the reduced penalty and is currently drafting an Agreed Order with IDEM. Mon Valley Works On March 17, 2008, U. S. Steel entered a Consent Order and Agreement (COA) with the Allegheny County Health Department (ACHD) to resolve alleged opacity limitation and pushing and traveling violations from older coke oven batteries at its Clairton Plant and to resolve alleged opacity violations from its Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA required U. S. Steel to pay a civil penalty of $301,800 to resolve past alleged violations addressed by the COA. U. S. Steel paid the civil penalty on March 25, 2008. The COA requires U. S. Steel to conduct interim repairs on existing batteries and make improvements at the Ladle Metallurgical Facility and Steelmaking Shop at the Edgar Thomson Plant. The COA also requires that Batteries 7, 8 and 9 be shutdown by January 24, 2013 and Batteries 1, 2 and 3 be shutdown by August 11, 2015. Batteries 7 through 9 were shutdown in April 2009. We are repairing existing Batteries 19 and 20 and we continue to evaluate plans to construct new coke batteries at the Clairton Plant. U. S. Steel is also making upgrades at its Edgar Thomson Plant that would reduce emissions. On September 3, 2009, U. S. Steel Mon Valley Clairton Works incurred a catastrophic failure of its Desulfurization Plant. Because of this event, the Clairton, Edgar Thomson, and Irvin plants have exceeded their sulfur limit for air emissions when burning coke oven gas. The Desulfurization Plant was inoperable from September 3, 2009 through the remainder of 2009. U. S. Steel has provided the regulatory agencies with reports and updates. While no NOV has been issued to date, the Allegheny County Health Department has verbally indicated that it intends to issue a violation notice regarding the inability to desulfuirze the coke oven gas to meet the sulfur loading limits. On October 8, 2009, Mon Valley Clairton Works received a NOV from ACHD alleging that Clairton Works was culpable for hydrogen sulfide (H2S) Pennsylvania ambient air quality standard exceedances. The NOV requires U. S. Steel to submit a plan with milestones to reduce and minimize fugitive emissions of coke oven gas from the coke producing operations at Clairton including identification of coke oven gas emission sources and method of improved emission prevention and control. While U. S. Steel appealed the NOV on October 16, 2009, U. S. Steel 44 Table of Contents submitted an Action Plan to ACHD that was required by the NOV. U. S. Steel and ACHD have performed H2S modeling and are in the process of evaluating all potential sources of H2S in the area. U. S. Steel and ACHD continue to meet and discuss resolution. Midwest Plant A former disposal area located on the east side of the Midwest Plant was designated a SWMU (East Side SWMU) by IDEM before U. S. Steel acquired this plant from National Steel Corporation. After the acquisition, U. S. Steel conducted further investigations of the East Side SWMU. As a result, U. S. Steel has submitted a Closure Plan to IDEM recommending consolidation and in place closure of the East Side SWMU. The cost to close the East Side SWMU is expected to be $4.0 million and was recorded as an accrued liability as of December 31, 2009. Fairless Plant In January 1992, U. S. Steel commenced negotiations with EPA regarding the terms of an Administrative Order on consent, pursuant to RCRA, under which U. S. Steel would perform an RFI and a CMS at our Fairless Plant. A Phase I RFI report was submitted during the third quarter of 1997. A Phase II/III RFI will be submitted following EPA approval of the Phase I report. While the RFI/CMS will determine whether there is a need for, and the scope of, any remedial activities at the Fairless Plant, U. S. Steel continues to maintain interim measures at the Fairless Plant and has completed investigation activities on specific parcels. No remedial activities are contemplated as a result of the investigations of these parcels. The cost to U. S. Steel to continue to maintain the interim measures and develop a Phase II/III RFI Work Plan is estimated to be $617,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Fairfield Works A consent decree was signed by U. S. Steel, EPA and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and filed with the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama (United States of America v. USX Corporation) on December 11, 1997. In accordance with the consent decree, U. S. Steel paid a civil penalty of $1.0 million, completed two supplemental environmental projects at a cost of $1.75 million and initiated a RCRA corrective action program at the Fairfield Works facility. The Alabama Department of Environmental Management (ADEM) with the approval of EPA assumed primary responsibility for regulation and oversight of the RCRA corrective action program at Fairfield Works. ADEM is currently reviewing the Phase II RFI work plan. The remaining cost to develop and implement the Phase II RFI work plan is estimated to be $787,000. U. S. Steel has completed the investigation and remediation of Lower Opossum Creek under a joint agreement with Beazer, Inc., whereby U. S. Steel has agreed to pay 30 percent of the costs. U. S. Steels remaining share of the costs for sediment remediation is $210,000. In 2006, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of Upper Opossum Creek at a cost of $2.95 million, with a remaining contingency of $18,000. In January 1999, ADEM included the former Ensley facility site in Fairfield Corrective Action. In 2007, U. S. Steel completed the remediation of approximately two acres of land at the former Ensley coke plant. As of December 31, 2009, costs to complete the remediation of this area have amounted to $1.3 million. An additional $49,000 remains accrued for project contingencies at Ensley with an additional $65,000 accrued for the contiguous properties. In total, the accrued liability for the projects described above was $1.0 million as of December 31, 2009, based on estimated remaining costs. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Lorain Tubular Operations In September 2006, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA) inviting U. S. Steel to enter into discussions about RCRA Corrective Action at Lorain Tubular Operations. Those discussions resulted in the identification of ten SWMUs and three Areas of Concern (AOC) requiring further investigation and evaluation. In addition, U. S. Steel notified Ohio EPA in August 2009 of an additional SWMU based upon its field observations and a preliminary assessment. Currently, U. S. Steel is implementing a Phase I RFI on the identified SWMUs and AOCs. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has spent $223,000 on studies at 45 Table of Contents this site. Costs to complete additional studies are estimated to be $547,000. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Great Lakes Works On January 6, 2006, U. S. Steel received a proposed administrative consent order from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) that alleged violations of NPDES permits at the Great Lakes Works facility. On February 13, 2007, MDEQ and U. S. Steel agreed to a revised Administrative Consent Order that resolves this matter. As required by the Administrative Consent Order, U. S. Steel has paid a civil penalty of $300,000 and has reimbursed MDEQ $50,000 in costs. The Order identifies certain compliance actions that address the alleged violations. U. S. Steel has completed work on most of these compliance actions, and has initiated work on the others. One of the compliance actions addresses three river basins along the Detroit River and U. S. Steel has completed the corrective measure necessary to remove historical basin sediments from these areas. As of December 31, 2009, $1.8 million had been spent on the project. In addition, $161,000 remains accrued for possible additional requirements to obtain MDEQ approval. Another compliance action includes modifications to the Cold Mill Wastewater Treatment Plant where U. S. Steel has agreed to rehabilitate four clarifiers and two wastewater conveyance pipelines, upgrade the computer control system and evaluate other potential improvements of this system. The vast majority of the elements of this project have been completed at a cost of $8.8 million and U. S. Steel anticipates spending an additional $110,000 most of which will be capitalized. Costs to complete the few remaining compliance actions are presently not determinable. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Great Lakes Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Great Lakes Works violated casthouse roof monitor and baghouse opacity limits; slag pit opacity limits; Basic Oxygen Process roof monitor opacity limits; and certain permit recordkeeping and parametric monitoring requirements. Great Lakes Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the DOJ. Granite City Works U. S. Steel received two NOVs, dated February 20, 2004 and March 25, 2004, for air violations at the coke batteries, the blast furnace and the steel shop at our Granite City Works facility. All of the issues have been resolved except for an issue relating to air emissions that occurs when coke is pushed out of the ovens, for which a compliance plan has been submitted to the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA). IEPA referred the two NOVs to the Illinois Attorney Generals Office for enforcement. On September 14, 2005, the Illinois Attorney General filed a complaint in the Madison County Circuit Court, titled People of the State of Illinois ex. rel. Lisa Madigan vs. United States Steel Corporation, which included the issues raised in the two NOVs. In December 2006, IEPA added to its complaint by adding a release of coke oven gas in February 2006. In October 2007, the Court entered a Second Supplemental Complaint in which IEPA added alleged violations regarding excessive opacity emissions from the blast furnace, and incorrect sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission factors regarding blast furnace gas emissions. On December 18, 2007, U. S. Steel entered into a Consent Order with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA that resolved the Complaint, as supplemented. The Order required that U. S. Steel: (1) pay a penalty of $300,000, which U. S. Steel paid on January 10, 2008; (2) demonstrate compliance with Coke Oven Pushing Operations in accordance with the compliance schedule provided in the Order; (3) comply with the basic oxygen furnace (BOF) opacity emissions in accordance with the schedule provided in the Order; and (4) submit to IEPA a revised permit application with the correct SO2 emission factors, which U. S. Steel submitted in January 2008. On September 30, 2008, U. S. Steel submitted a revised BOF Compliance Schedule and requested to modify the Order consistent with the revised BOF Compliance Schedule. U. S. Steel is currently negotiating with IEPA and the Illinois Attorney General as to what upgrades at the BOF will precede the compliance demonstration. U. S. Steel met with the Illinois Attorney General and IEPA on June 11, 2009 to discuss the BOF Compliance Plan and Schedule. While the meeting was productive, the compliance demonstration deadline for the BOF remains indefinitely postponed by agreement of the parties. At Granite City Works, U. S. Steel and Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway), a subsidiary of SunCoke Energy, Inc., have agreed with two environmental advocacy groups to establish an Environmental Trust 46 Table of Contents Fund (Trust), which requires the permittees (U. S. Steel and Gateway) to collectively deposit $1.0 million by September 30th of each year, beginning September 30, 2008 and ending September 30, 2012. U. S. Steel contributed $500,000 to the Trust on September 30, 2008, which amounted to its share of the required 2008 deposit. On September 30, 2009, U. S. Steel contributed an additional $500,000 to the Trust pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. As grantors, U. S. Steel and Gateway have established the Trust as a part of the cost to construct a heat recovery coke plant adjacent to Granite City Works. The capital contribution and all net income of the Trust are to be used for the purposes of promoting energy efficiency, greenhouse gas reductions and PM2.5 emission reduction, to be implemented in the local community where Granite City Works is located. The Trust can be used for projects at public buildings or property owned by the city, local schools, parks and library districts. On February 2, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging approximately 16 separate violations. Specifically, IEPA alleged that Granite City Works: inappropriately charged a battery while off the collecting mains because of (1) damaged coke guides on one occasion and (2) derailment of the pushing control system on two occasions; failed to perform some monthly and quarterly inspections required by Iron & Steel Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards or Coke MACT standards; failed to initiate repairs within 30 days after recording that the baffles on the quench tower were damaged on the monthly inspection report; failed to adequately wash the baffles on the quench tower per the MACT standard; inappropriately used the emergency pour station at the BOP during routine, non emergency maintenance; failed to sufficiently apply a wetting agent to the slag from BF A to minimize fugitive emissions while loading trucks and failed to update and properly implement its Fugitive Dust Program. U. S. Steel provided a written response to IEPA on March 18, 2009 and met with IEPA on April 8, 2009 to resolve the issues identified in the NOV. U. S. Steel supplemented its response on April 29, 2009. IEPA has not made any penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. On March 17, 2009, U. S. Steel received an NOV from IEPA alleging the following at Granite City Works: door leaks from B Battery; volatile organic compounds from pressure relief valves from gas blanketing tank; coke by products process unit and information (lacking); failure to report retagging project for benzene in service equipment; and failure to maintain records for benzene in service equipment repairs. U. S. Steel responded to the NOV on May 8, 2009, and met with IEPA regarding the issues identified in the NOV on June 9, 2009. IEPA has not made a penalty demand to date. Resolution of the issues identified in the NOV continues to be negotiated with IEPA. On November 16, 2009, Granite City Works received a notice of intent to pursue legal action regarding the alleged violations from IEPA. U. S. Steel last met with IEPA on December 8, 2009 to discuss resolution. In late January 2009, Granite City Works exceeded its natural gas usage and corresponding emission limits for 2008 at designated combustion units, including boilers and ladle drying. A notification letter was submitted to IEPA by U. S. Steel on January 30, 2009. Per U. S. Steels January 30, 2009 correspondence, U. S. Steel provided a Compliance Plan regarding fuel use and fuel balance to IEPA on February 28, 2009. IEPA has not responded to the self reported violations or made any penalty demand. On October 5, 2009, after an inspection of Granite City Works and receiving responses to its 114 Request, as part of EPA Region Vs regional enforcement initiative, U. S. Steel received an NOV/FOV from EPA Region V alleging that Granite City Works: failed to apply for an obtain a Prevention of Signficant Deterioration/New Source Review permit for the 1994 B Blast Furnace reline (while the furnace was owned by National Steel Corporation); exceeded BOP roof monitor opacity limits, exceeded blast furnace casthouse roof monitor opacity limits; and failed to complete certain permit recordkeeping and parameteric monitoring requirements. Granite City Works has met with EPA regarding the alleged violations and continues to negotiate resolution of the matter. EPA advised U. S. Steel that it has referred the matter to the Department of Justice. Geneva Works At U. S. Steels former Geneva Works, liability for environmental remediation, including the closure of three hazardous waste impoundments and facility wide corrective action, has been allocated between U. S. Steel and the current property owner pursuant to an asset sales agreement and a permit issued by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality. U. S. Steel developed work plans and completed remediation on certain areas of the site. Having completed the invesigation on a majority of remaining areas identified in the permit, U. S. Steel has 47 Table of Contents determined that the most effective means to address the remaining impacted material is to manage those materials in a previously approved on site Corrective Action Management Unit (CAMU). U. S. Steel has recorded a liability of $66 million as of December 2009, for our estimated share of the remaining costs of remediation, including the construction, waste management, closure and post closure of a CAMU. USS POSCO Industries (UPI) At UPI, a joint venture between subsidaries of U. S. Steel and POSCO Industries, corrective measures have been implemented for the majority of the former SWMUs. Seven SWMUs remain at the facility, five of which require further remediation. Prior to the formation of UPI, U. S. Steel owned and operated the Pittsburg, California facility and U. S. Steel retained responsibility for the existing environmental conditions. Two SWMUs may not require further action pending a No Further Action decision by the California Department of Toxic Substances Control (DTSC). Of the five SWMUs requiring remediation, U. S. Steel is nearing completion of investigatory work which will result in engineered remedies for two SWMUs. These SWMUs include the impacted ground water at the former wire mill, and the coal tar pitch impacted soils near the old foundry building. U. S. Steel is continuing discussions with the DTSC regarding additional corrective measures that may be required at the three remaining SWMUs within the facility. Arsenic impacted soils and groundwater have been delineated at these three SWMUs. While it is likely that corrective measures will be required at these SWMUs, it is not possible at this time to define a scope or estimate costs for what may be required by DTSC. It is reasonably possible that additional costs of as much as $25 to $45 million may be incurred at this site in combination with four other projects. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements Contingencies and Commitments Environmental Matters Remediation Projects Projects with Ongoing Study and Scope Development. Other On December 20, 2002, U. S. Steel received a letter from the Kansas Department of Health & Environment (KDHE) requesting U. S. Steels cooperation in cleaning up the National Zinc site located in Cherryvale, Kansas, a former zinc smelter operated by Edgar Zinc from 1898 to 1931. In April 2003, U. S. Steel and Salomon Smith Barney Holdings, Inc. (SSB) entered into a consent order to conduct an investigation and develop remediation alternatives. Implementation of the preferred remedy was essentially completed in late 2007. The respondents are finalizing the Removal Action Summary report by addressing some minor site maintenance issues, deed restrictions and operating and maintenance plans for approval by KDHE. U. S. Steel and SSB continue to work with KDHE to address site maintenance issues. At December 31, 2009, an accrual of $121,000 remains available for these project contingencies. On January 23, 2006, Kansas Department of Health and Environment KDHE sent a letter to U. S. Steel requesting that U. S. Steel address a former zinc smelter site in Girard, Kansas. U. S. Steel completed a site investigation, and submitted a Corrective Action Study (CAS) necessary to address the impacted soils at this site. KDHE approved the CAS on November 17, 2009. In addition, a Consent Agreement and Final Order, through which the remediation will be conducted, remains to be negotiated with KDHE. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel has an accrued liability of $1 million to complete the investigation and conduct the remedial measure as proposed in the CAS. In January of 2004, U. S. Steel received notice of a claim from the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) and notice of claims from citizens of a cap failure at the Dayton Landfill. U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil are the largest PRPs at the site and have agreed to equally share costs for investigating the site, making U. S. Steels share 33 1/3 percent. The Remedial Action Plan for the site was approved by TCEQ in June 2009. On December 10, 2009, pursuant to the Texas Solid Waste Disposal Act, The Cox Road Group (comprised of U. S. Steel, Lubrizol and ExxonMobil) filed a contribution/cost of recovery action against apporximately 50 parties in Liberty County, Texas. Implementation of remedial measures is expected to be initiated in 2010. The accrued liability to complete U. S. Steels one third portion of the site investigations and implement the remedial measure was $1.8 million as of December 31, 2009. 48 Table of Contents Item 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The executive officers of U. S. Steel and their ages as of February 1, 2010, are as follows: Name Age Title Executive OfficerSince George F. Babcoke 53 Senior Vice President European Operations & President U. S. Steel Koice March 1, 2008 James D. Garraux 57 General Counsel & Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs February 1, 2007 John H. Goodish 61 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer December 31, 2001 Gretchen R. Haggerty 54 Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer December 31, 2001 David H. Lohr 56 Senior Vice President Strategic Planning, Business Services & Administration June 1, 2008 John P. Surma 55 Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer December 31, 2001 Susan M. Suver 50 Vice President Human Resources November 1, 2007 Gregory A. Zovko 48 Vice President & Controller April 1, 2009 All of the executive officers mentioned above have held responsible management or professional positions with U. S. Steel or our subsidiaries for more than the past five years, with the exception of Ms. Suver. Prior to joining U. S. Steel, Ms. Suver served as corporate vice president, Global Human Resources for Arrow Electronics, Inc. (Arrow), a $12 billion global provider of industrial and commercial electronic components and computer products. She joined Arrow in 2001 as vice president, Global Organizational Development. Prior to that, she served as vice president, Organization Effectiveness and Communication for Phelps Dodge Corporation. Messrs. Garraux, Goodish and Surma and Ms. Haggerty will hold office until the annual election of executive officers by the Board of Directors following the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or until his or her earlier resignation, retirement or removal. Messrs. Babcoke, Lohr and Zovko and Ms. Suver will hold office until their resignation, retirement or removal. 49 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Information The principal market on which U. S. Steel common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. U. S. Steel common stock is also traded on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Information concerning the high and low sales price for the common stock as reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system and the frequency and amount of dividends paid during the last two years is set forth in Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) on page F 61. As of January 31, 2010, there were 20,322 registered holders of U. S. Steel common stock. The Board of Directors intends to declare and pay dividends on U. S. Steel common stock based on the financial condition and results of operations of U. S. Steel, although it has no obligation under Delaware law or the U. S. Steel Certificate of Incorporation to do so. Dividends are declared by U. S. Steel on a quarterly basis. For the first quarter of 2009, the dividend declared per share of U. S. Steel common stock was $.30 and for the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, the dividend declared was $.05. For the first and second quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.25 and for the third and fourth quarters of 2008, the dividend declared was $.30. Dividends on U. S. Steel common stock are limited to legally available funds. Shareholder Return Performance The graph below compares the yearly change in cumulative total shareholder return of our common stock with the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poors (S&Ps) 500 Stock Index and the S&P Steel Index. The S&P Steel Index is comprised of U. S. Steel, Nucor Corporation, Allegheny Technologies Incorporated and Worthington Industries, Inc. 50 Table of Contents Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities U. S. Steel had no sales of unregistered securities during the period covered by this report and we have suspended purchases under our Common Stock Repurchase Program. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Dollars in millions (except per share data) 2009 2008 2007(a) 2006 2005 Statement of Operations Data: Net sales(b) $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 $ 15,715 $ 14,039 (Loss) income from operations(c) (1,684 ) 3,069 1,213 1,785 1,439 Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(c) (1,401 ) 2,112 879 1,374 910 Per Common Share Data: Net (loss) income attributable to United States Steel Corporation(d) basic (10.42 ) 18.04 7.44 11.88 7.87 diluted (10.42 ) 17.96 7.40 11.18 7.00 Dividends per share declared and paid 0.45 1.10 0.80 0.60 0.38 Balance Sheet Data December 31: Total assets $ 15,422 $ 16,087 $ 15,632 $ 10,586 $ 9,822 Capitalization: Debt(e) $ 3,364 $ 3,145 $ 3,257 $ 1,025 $ 1,612 United States Steel Corporation stockholders equity 4,676 4,895 5,531 4,365 3,324 Total capitalization $ 8,040 $ 8,040 $ 8,788 $ 5,390 $ 4,936 (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. (b) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase in net sales from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from higher average realized prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe (including favorable foreign currency effects) and higher shipments of flat rolled and tubular products in the U.S. The increase in net sales from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from higher shipments and increased average realized prices prices in all three reportable segments. (c) For discussion of changes between the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The decrease from 2006 to 2007 mainly resulted from higher raw materials and outage related costs in the U.S. and Europe, increased maintenance costs in the U.S., lower average realized prices for tubular products in the U.S. and unfavorable inventory transition effects related to inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco. These were partially offset by higher prices for flat rolled products in the U.S. and Europe. The increase from 2005 to 2006 was mainly due to higher average realized prices in the U.S., higher shipments of flat rolled products in the U.S. and in Europe and lower raw materials costs in Europe. These were partially offset by higher raw materials costs in the U.S. (d) See Note 8 to the Financial Statements for the basis of calculating earnings per share. (e) For discussion of changes between the years 2009 and 2008 see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The increase from 2006 to 2007 primarily resulted from new debt issued to fund the acquisitions of USSC and Lone Star. The decrease from 2005 to 2006 primarily resulted from the repurchase of most of our 10 3/4% Senior Notes due August 1, 2008, and from the repayment and termination of a 195 million credit facility at USSK. 51 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the tenth largest steel producer in the world and the largest integrated steel producer headquartered in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions to produce a wide range of flat rolled and tubular steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil, gas and petrochemical industries. In addition to our facilities in the United States, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Canada through U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) and in Europe through U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), located in Serbia. U. S. Steels financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. While the operating results of our various businesses are affected by a number of business specific factors (see Item 1. Business Steel Industry Background and Competition), the primary drivers for U. S. Steel are general economic conditions in North America, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other benefits costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. Following several years of strong performance, the steel industry and U. S. Steel were quickly and severely impacted by the global recession starting in late 2008. In response to these economic conditions, our strategy has been to enhance our liquidity, maintain a solid balance sheet and position ourselves for success in the longer term. In late 2008 and early 2009, we idled all or portions of numerous steel making, finishing, raw materials and tubular operations in the U.S., Canada and Europe and operated our remaining facilities at reduced levels to match our customers lower demand requirements. We continue to monitor the impact of the economic situation on our customers and to adjust our operations to efficiently meet their requirements. Our raw steel capability utilization rate in 2009 was 48% for Flat rolled operations and 69% for USSE operations. With respect to financial matters, we reduced our quarterly dividend, completed successful offerings of senior convertible notes and common stock and renegotiated the provisions of existing financial covenants with lenders. We initiated substantial cost reduction activities at all locations, including reducing our non represented workforce through restructuring, attrition and early retirement programs. We agreed with the United Steel Workers (USW) to defer certain mandatory trust contributions, implemented a hiring freeze, eliminated merit pay salary increases, suspended the Company match on our 401(k) program, and reduced fees for Board of Directors and base salaries for all general managers and executives. We significantly reduced our capital expenditures for 2009 from the original plan of $740 million to $472 million by focusing largely on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. We voluntarily contributed $140 million to the main defined benefit plan as we still believe that this is appropriate to mitigate larger potential funding requirements in the future. We refinanced $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds extending their maturity dates from 2011 to maturity dates ranging from 2017 to 2030. We finished the year with total liquidity of $2.5 billion, an improvement of nearly $300 million from the average of the previous five year ends. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to earn a competitive return on capital employed by implementing our strategy to be a world leader in safety and environmental performance; to continue to increase our value added product mix; to further expand our global business platform; to maintain a strong capital structure, balance sheet and liquidity position; to continue to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to attract and retain a diverse and talented workforce. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which are impacting the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the level of unfunded pension and other benefits obligations; the degree of industry consolidation; the impact of production and consumption of steel in China and other developing countries; and the levels of steel imports into the markets we serve. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to employee benefits liabilities and assets held in trust relating to such liabilities; the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; goodwill and intangible assets; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations and potential litigation claims and settlements. Managements estimates are based on historical experience, current business and market conditions, and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. LIFO (last in, first out) is the predominant method of inventory costing for inventories in the United States and FIFO (first in, first out) is the predominant method used in Canada and Europe. The LIFO method of inventory costing was used for 49 percent and 39 percent of consolidated inventories at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Equity Method Investments Investments in entities over which U. S. Steel has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are carried at U. S. Steels share of net assets plus loans, advances and our share of earnings less distributions. Differences in the basis of the investment and the underlying net asset value of the investee, if any, are amortized into earnings over the remaining useful life of the associated assets. Income from investees includes U. S. Steels share of income from equity method investments, which is generally recorded a month in arrears, except for significant and unusual items which are recorded in the period of occurrence. Gains or losses from changes in ownership of unconsolidated investees are recognized in the period of change. Intercompany profits and losses on transactions with equity investees have been eliminated in consolidation subject to lower of cost or market inventory adjustments. U. S. Steel evaluates impairment of its equity method investments whenever circumstances indicate that a decline in value below carrying value is other than temporary. Under these circumstances, we would adjust the investment down to its estimated fair value, which then becomes its new carrying value. Pensions and Other Benefits The recording of net periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pensions and other benefits is based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the 53 Table of Contents assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steels investment strategy for its U.S. pension and other benefits plan assets provides for a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality bonds and selected smaller investments in private equities, investment trusts, timber and mineral interests. For its U.S. pension plans, U. S. Steel has a target allocation for plan assets of 60 percent equities with the balance primarily invested in corporate bonds and government backed bonds and Treasury bills. For the Other Benefit plans, the target allocation for plan assets is 65 percent equities. U. S. Steel also believes that returns on equities over the long term will be higher than returns from fixed income securities as actual historical returns from U. S. Steels trusts have shown. Returns on bonds tend to offset some of the shorter term volatility of stocks. Both equity and fixed income investments are made across a broad range of industries and companies to provide protection against the impact of volatility in any single industry as well as company specific developments. U. S. Steel is currently using an 8.00 percent assumed rate of return for purposes of the expected return on assets for the development of net periodic cost for the main defined benefit pension plan and Other Benefits. This rate was chosen by taking into account the intended asset mix and the historical premiums that fixed income and equity investments have yielded above government bonds. Actual returns since the inception of the plans have exceeded this 8.00 percent rate and while some recent annual returns have not, it is U. S. Steels expectation that future periods will return to this level. For USSC defined benefit pension plans, U. S. Steels investment strategy is similar to its strategy for U.S. plans, whereby the Company seeks a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality corporate and government bonds and selected smaller investments with a target allocation for plan assets of 65 percent equities. A 7.50 percent rate of return is being used for the development of net periodic costs in 2010 which is lower than the U.S. pension plan assumption as subcategories within the asset mix are from a more limited investment universe and, as a result, have a lower expected return. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate used to measure both domestic pension and other benefits obligations to 5.5 percent from 6.0 percent. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which we estimate the pension and other benefits liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting the domestic rates, we utilize several AAA and AA corporate bond indices as an indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. For USSC benefit plans, a discount rate was selected through a similar review process using Canadian bond rates and indices and at December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate to 6.0 percent from 6.5 percent for its Canadian based pension and other benefits. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Much of our costs for the domestic USW participants retiree health benefits (other than for most surviving spouses) in the Companys main domestic insurance plan are subject to a cost cap that was negotiated in 2003. As a result of the collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) (see Note 17 to the Financial Statements), our costs are subject to the full impact of escalation for the surviving spouse beneficiaries since their retiree premium contributions are now a flat fixed amount. Escalation applies to most other groups within the Companys insurance plans, but does not apply to most domestic non union retirees since their benefits are limited to flat dollar amounts. For measurement of its domestic retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 8.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2015 and remain at that level thereafter. For measurement of its Canadian retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 7.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2014 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, including multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $270 million in 2010 compared to $271 million in 2009. Pension cost for 2009 included $80 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Total other benefits costs in 2010 are expected to be approximately $150 million, compared to $191 million in 2009. Other benefit costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Excluding the 2009 settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the expected increase in total pension cost is primarily due to a lower market related value of plan assets primarily due to further recognition of the asset losses that were incurred in 2008. 54 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical  1/2 percentage point change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and other benefits calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) 1/2% (1/2%) Expected return on plan assets Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension cost for 2010 $ (52 ) $ 52 Discount rate Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension & other benefits costs for 2010 $ (22 ) $ 32 Pension & other benefits liabilities at December 31, 2009 $ (613 ) $ 658 Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental increase (decrease) in: Service and interest cost components for 2010 $ 8 $ (7 ) Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost over the fair value of acquired identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities assumed from businesses acquired. We have two reporting units that have a significant amount of goodwill. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007. These amounts reflect the benefits we expect the Flat rolled reporting unit to realize from expanding our flexibility in meeting our customers needs and running our Flat rolled facilities at higher operating rates to source our semi finished product needs. Our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition, reflecting the benefits we expect the reporting unit to realize from the expansion of our tubular operations. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. U. S. Steel completed its annual goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of 2009 and determined that there was no goodwill impairment for either reporting unit. Fair value was determined in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820 on fair value, which requires consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable. For the 2009 annual goodwill impairment test, U. S. Steel used fair values estimated under the income approach and the market approach. Although considered, U. S. Steel did not utilize the cost approach as relevant data was not available. The income approach is based upon projected future cash flows discounted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk associated with the future cash flows. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using probability weighted scenarios of future cash flow projections based on managements long range estimates of market conditions over a multiple year horizon. A three percent perpetual growth rate was used to arrive at an estimated future terminal value. A discount rate of 11 percent was used for both reporting units which was based upon the cost of capital of other comparable steel companies, which we view as the most likely market participants. The market approach is based upon an analysis of valuation metrics for companies comparable to our reporting units. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using an appropriate valuation multiple based on this analysis, estimated normalized earnings and an estimated control premium. 55 Table of Contents In order to validate the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units, a reconciliation of the aggregate fair values of all reporting units to market capitalization, using a reasonable control premium, was performed as of the valuation date. We further validated the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units using other valuation metrics that included data from historical U. S. Steel transactions as well as published analyst reports. As of December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively, but would still result in no goodwill impairment charge. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit under the income approach are determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions, including assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or assumed growth rates, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. U. S. Steel has determined that certain acquired intangible assets have indefinite useful lives. These assets are reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long lived assets U. S. Steel evaluates long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of those productive assets exceed their projected undiscounted cash flows. We evaluate the impairment of long lived assets at the asset group level. Our asset groupings are the same as our reporting units. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel determines that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of our deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of our net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. income taxes on undistributed foreign earnings because as of December 31, 2009, it remained managements intention to continue indefinitely to reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2009 amounted to approximately $2,901 million. If such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $870 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss for items that have been or may be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, court case, tax ruling or other authoritative tax position), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2009, the total accrual for environmental remediation was $203 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations. Due to uncertainties inherent in remediation projects, it is possible that total remediation costs for active matters may exceed the accrued liability by as much as 15 to 30 percent. Segments U. S. Steel has three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2008, the operating results of our iron ore operations, which were previously included in Other Businesses, are included in the Flat rolled segment. The iron ore operations are managed as part of our Flat rolled segment, which consumes almost all of our iron ore production. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this change. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels North American integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of slabs, rounds, strip mill plates, sheets and tin mill products , as well as all iron ore and coke production facilities in the United States and Canada. The steel rounds and a portion of the hot rolled sheets produced by Flat rolled are supplied to the Tubular segment. These operations primarily serve North American customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), construction, container, and appliance and electrical markets. Flat rolled has annual raw steel production capability of 24.3 million tons. Flat rolled had annual raw steel production capability of 20.2 million tons for the year ended December 31, 2007 as annual raw steel production capability includes U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Raw steel production was 11.7 million tons in 2009, 19.2 million tons in 2008 and 16.8 million tons in 2007. Raw steel production averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009, 79 percent of capability in 2008 and 83 percent of capability in 2007. The USSE segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and coke production facilities in Slovakia; U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and other facilities in Serbia; and equity investees located in Europe. USSE primarily serves customers in the European construction, service center, conversion, container, transportation (including automotive), appliance and electrical, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. USSE produces and sells slabs, sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill products and spiral welded pipe, as well as heating radiators and refractory ceramic materials. USSE has annual raw steel production capability of 7.4 million tons. USSEs raw steel production was 5.1 million tons in 2009, 6.4 million tons in 2008 and 6.8 million tons in 2007. USSEs raw steel production averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009, 86 percent of capability in 2008 and 92 percent of capability in 2007. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels tubular production facilities, primarily in the United States, and equity investees in the United States and Brazil. These operations produce and sell seamless and electric resistance welded (ERW) steel casing and tubing (commonly known as oil country tubular goods or OCTG), standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. Tubulars annual production capability is 2.8 million tons. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses include transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations and engineering consulting services. For further information, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents Net Sales (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Net Sales by Segment (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2009 2008 2007(b) Flat rolled(a) $ 6,814 $ 13,789 $ 9,986 USSE 2,944 5,487 4,667 Tubular 1,216 4,251 1,985 Total sales from reportable segments 10,974 23,527 16,638 Other Businesses(a) 74 227 235 Net sales $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 (a) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements. (b) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2009 versus Year Ended December 31, 2008 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 40 % 8 % 0 % 1 % 2 % 51 % USSE 20 % 20 % 1 % 3 % 2 % 46 % Tubular 63 % 5 % 1 % 0 % 4 % 71 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The decrease in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected decreased shipments (down 7.0 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $129 per net ton). The decrease in sales for USSE was primarily due to decreased shipments (down 1.2 million net tons) and lower average realized euro based transaction prices (down $295 per net ton including foreign currency translation effects). The decrease in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from decreased shipments (down 1.3 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $286 per net ton). 58 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 versus Year Ended December 31, 2007 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 19 % 19 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 38 % USSE 7 % 18 % 1 % 7 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 40 % 64 % 4 % 0 % 6 % 114 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The increase in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected higher average realized prices (up $138 per ton) and increased shipments, primarily due to the inclusion of USSC for all of 2008. The increase in sales for USSE was primarily due to higher average realized euro based transaction prices and currency translation effects, partially offset by reduced shipments. Including the currency translation effects, reported average realized prices increased $212 per ton from 2007. The increase in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from higher average realized prices (up $706 per ton) and increased shipments, partially due to the inclusion of the former Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) facilities for the entire year in 2008. Operating Expenses Profit based union payments Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Allocated to segment results $ $ 237 $ 119 Retiree benefit expenses 99 Total $ $ 237 $ 218 Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 did not include any costs for profit based payments to employees represented by the USW because the base threshold of operating income agreed to in the 2008 CBAs was not met. Results for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 include costs related to profit based payments. These costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Profit based payment amounts per the agreements with the USW are calculated as a percentage of consolidated income from operations (as defined in the agreements) and are paid as profit sharing to active USW represented employees (excluding employees of USSC) based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. Amounts in 2007 also include costs related to a trust that was to be used to assist retirees from National Steel with health care costs. Pension and other benefits costs Defined benefit and multiemployer pension plan costs totaled $271 million during 2009, $78 million during 2008 and $129 million in 2007. Pension costs during 2009 included $80 million for several voluntary early retirement programs (VERPs) and losses in connection with the sale of a majority of the operating assets of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E). Excluding these losses, the increase in expense from 2008 to 2009 mainly reflected the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Pension costs during 2007 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $20 million. Excluding these losses, the decrease in expense from 2007 to 2008 mainly reflected the improved funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $25 million during 2009, $35 million during 2008 and $26 million during 2007. Costs in 2009 included $13 million for VERP related benefits under these plans. Other benefits costs, which are included in income from operations, totaled $191 million in 2009, $149 million in 2008 and $136 million in 2007. Other benefits costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and 59 Table of Contents curtailment losses. Excluding these losses, the increase in 2009 was primarily due to impacts of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs partially offset by lower costs at USSC as a result of favorable claims experience. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of expenses related to USSC employees for the full year. For additional information on pensions and other benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Nonretirement postemployment benefits U. S. Steel incurred costs of and paid approximately $85 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 related to employee costs for supplemental unemployment benefits, salary continuance and continuation of health care benefits and life insurance coverage for employees associated with the temporary idling of certain facilities and reduced production at others. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $618 million in 2009, $625 million in 2008 and $589 million in 2007. Pension and other benefits costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $164 million in 2009, $47 million in 2008 and $86 million in 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses remained consistent from 2008 to 2009 but were impacted by an increase in pension and OPEB costs offset by a decrease in compensation expense. The increase in 2008 mainly resulted from increased expenses related to our 2007 acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and higher compensation expense, partially offset by lower pension expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization Depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses were $661 million in 2009, $605 million in 2008 and $506 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily related to the fact that effective January 1, 2009 we eliminated the use of the modified straight line method, which was previously used for certain steel producing assets in the United States. The increase in 2008 was primarily related to the full year impact of assets acquired in the business acquisitions during 2007. The modification factors previously applied to straight line calculations ranged from a minimum of 85 percent at a production level below 81 percent of capability, to a maximum of 105 percent for a 100 percent production level. No modification was made at the 95 percent production level. Applying modification factors decreased depreciation expense, when compared to a straight line calculation, by $58 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 60 Table of Contents (Loss) Income from Operations(a) Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 2007 Flat rolled(b) $ (1,438 ) $ 1,390 $ 382 USSE (208 ) 491 687 Tubular 57 1,207 356 Total (loss) income from reportable segments (1,589 ) 3,088 1,425 Other Businesses(b) (2 ) 77 84 Segment (loss) income from operations (1,591 ) 3,165 1,509 Retiree benefit expenses (134 ) (22 ) (143 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Federal excise tax refund 34 Litigation reserve 45 (45 ) Net (loss) gain on the sale of assets 97 Environmental remediation charge (49 ) (23 ) Workforce reduction charges (86 ) (57 ) Deferred gain recognition 150 Labor agreement signing payments (105 ) Asset impairment charge (28 ) Flat rolled inventory transition effects (23 ) (58 ) Tubular inventory transition effects (38 ) Total (loss) income from operations $ (1,684 ) $ 3,069 $ 1,213 (a) See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280. (b) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. 61 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled (Includes USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007) The Flat rolled segment generated a loss of $1,438 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $1,390 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted mainly from unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $2,450 million), lower income from reduced steel substrate sales to our Tubular segment (approximately $400 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities (approximately $360 million), facility restart costs (approximately $70 million) and lower income from equity investments (approximately $190 million). These were partially offset by lower raw material and natural gas costs (approximately $370 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $300 million). The increase in Flat rolleds segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 resulted mainly from higher commercial effects (approximately $2,780 million) and increased income from semi finished steel sales to Tubular (approximately $470 million). These were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials (approximately $1,560 million) and energy (approximately $280 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $170 million) and higher accruals for profit based payments (approximately $150 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. 62 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE The USSE segment generated a loss of $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $491 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $1,300 million) and reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $135 million) partially offset by lower raw material costs (approximately $620 million), reduced facility repair and maintenance costs (approximately $60 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $50 million). The decrease in USSEs segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to higher raw materials and energy costs (approximately $780 million), net unfavorable currency effects (approximately $50 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $40 million) and outage related costs (approximately $30 million), partially offset by higher commercial effects (approximately $740 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. Capability utilization in 2008 was adversely affected by the reline of the No. 1 blast furnace in Slovakia and by reduced operations late in the year to match declining customer demand. 63 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular (Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007) The decrease in Tubulars segment income in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to unfavorable commercial effects (approximately $1,080 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities and facilities operating at reduced production levels (approximately $35 million and $60 million, respectively) and write downs of inventory (approximately $35 million). These were partially offset by lower costs of substrate steel purchases from the Flat rolled segment (approximately $40 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $55 million). The increase in Tubulars segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 mainly resulted from higher commercial effects (approximately $1,580), due in part to the inclusion of results for facilities acquired from Lone Star for the entire year. This was partially offset by increased costs for semi finished steel (approximately $610 million) from Flat rolled and outside sources. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses generated a loss of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $77 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted from the impacts of the global recession and the sale of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E) in the first quarter of 2009. Results for Other Businesses decreased by $7 million from 2007 to 2008. Items not allocated to segments: Retiree benefit expenses increased significantly from 2008 to 2009 mainly due to the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Retiree benefit expenses decreased significantly from 2007 to 2008 mainly due to lower retiree pension expense (See Operating Expenses Pension and other benefits costs) and lower profit based expense related to certain former National Steel employees (See Operating Expenses Profit based union payments). 64 Table of Contents During 2009, U. S. Steel received a federal excise tax refund of $34 million associated with the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales from 1990 to 1992. A litigation reserve of $45 million involving a rate escalation provision in a U. S. Steel power supply contract was established in 2008 as a result of a court ruling and was subsequently reversed in 2009 as that decision was overturned. See Part II. Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings. We recorded a $97 million pre tax net gain on sale of assets in 2009 as a result of the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. The net gain included a pension curtailment loss of approximately $10 million. We recorded a $49 million environmental remediation charge in 2009 in connection with the definition of an expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works. We recorded a $23 million environmental remediation charge in 2008 as the scope of work became defined for an environmental project at a former operating location. Workforce reduction charges of $86 million in 2009 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a VERP offered in the first quarter of 2009 to certain non represented employees in the United States. Workforce reduction charges of $57 million in 2007 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a voluntary early retirement plan offered to certain employees at USSK. We recognized a noncash deferred gain of $150 million in 2008 in connection with the termination of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements. The 2008 CBAs provided for labor agreement signing payments of up to $6,000 per employee which resulted in a charge of $105 million in 2008. An asset impairment charge of $28 million in 2008 resulted from our decision to exit the drawn over mandrel (DOM) tubular products business. The charge was taken principally to write down to fair value equipment associated with the DOM business. Inventory transition effects of $23 million in 2008 and $96 million in 2007 reflected the charges for conforming certain inventories acquired from Lone Star to our unified business model, and the impact of selling inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco, which had been recorded at fair value. Net Interest and Other Financial Costs Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Interest and other financial costs $ 179 $ 179 $ 162 (a) Interest income (10 ) (14 ) (79 )(a) Foreign currency gains (8 ) (103 ) (4 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 26 Net interest and other financial costs $ 161 $ 62 $ 105 (a) The year ended December 31, 2007 includes $27 million of interest expense and offsetting interest income related to the obligation to provide benefits for National Steel retirees that was settled in the fourth quarter of 2007. While the obligation was outstanding, U. S. Steel invested the amount due in short term investments and interest earned on those investments was also payable. The increase in net interest and other financial costs from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to lower foreign currency gains. The decrease in net interest and other financial costs from 2007 to 2008 was mainly due to higher foreign currency gains and the nonrecurrence of the $26 million charge in 2007 related to the early redemption of certain debt, partially offset by increased interest expense resulting from debt incurred to fund the acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and lower interest income. 65 Table of Contents The foreign currency gains include remeasurement effects on a U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan (the Intercompany Loan) from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary related to the 2007 acquisition of USSC that had an outstanding balance of $892 million at December 31, 2009, partially offset by losses on euro U.S. dollar derivatives activity, which we use to mitigate our foreign currency exposure. Volatility in the foreign currency markets could have significant implications for U. S. Steel going forward as a result of the foreign currency accounting remeasurement effects resulting from the Intercompany Loan and foreign currency gains and losses on derivatives activity. For additional information on U. S. Steels foreign currency exchange activity see Note 15 to the Financial Statements and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. Income Taxes The income tax benefit in 2009 was $439 million, compared to provisions of $853 million in 2008 and $218 million in 2007. The tax benefit in 2009 is primarily related to the net loss for the period. The effective tax benefit rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 is lower than the statutory rate because losses in Canada and Serbia, which are jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, do not generate a tax benefit for accounting purposes. The increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily reflected higher income and a higher effective tax rate as a result of a lower percentage of pre tax earnings generated by our European operations. The net domestic deferred tax asset was $731 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $802 million at December 31, 2008. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset from 2009 to 2008 was primarily a result of the remeasurement of the pension and other benefits plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements). At December 31, 2009, the foreign deferred tax assets recorded were $103 million, net of established valuation allowances of $575 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the euro, the Canadian dollar and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian deferred tax assets due to the absence of positive evidence at USSC to support the realizability of the assets. A full valuation allowance is provided for Serbian deferred tax assets because current projected investment tax credits, which must be used before net operating losses and credit carryforwards, are more than sufficient to offset future tax liabilities. As USSC and USSS generate sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $514 million for Canadian deferred tax assets and $46 million for Serbian deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009, would be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. For further information on income taxes see Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Net income Net loss in 2009 was $1,401 million compared to income of $2,112 million in 2008 and $879 million in 2007. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2009 decreased by $717 million from year end 2008 primarily due to lower inventories and lower receivables partially offset by higher cash balances (see Cash Flows). The decrease in inventories primarily resulted from lower quantities of higher cost raw materials. Raw material inventory quantities decreased as U. S. Steel maintained lower operating rates throughout 2009 and reduced raw material purchases as a cash conservation measure. Receivables decreased mainly due to lower sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, due primarily to lower average realized prices. These decreases were partially offset by the recognition of an income tax receivable representing a portion of the federal income tax refund that we expect to receive in 2010 as a result of carrying back our expected 2009 losses to prior years. Goodwill of $1,725 million increased by $116 million from year end 2008 mainly as goodwill attributable to the acqusition of Stelco were reported at higher amounts due to foreign currency translation effects. 66 Table of Contents Assets held for sale at December 31, 2009 consist of certain assets at Hamilton Works, primarily property, plant and equipment, and decreased from December 31, 2008 as a result of the sale of the majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. Total deferred income tax benefits at year end 2009 remained consistent with the balance at year end 2008. Deferred income tax benefits were primarily impacted by an increase in foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards offset by an increase in the valuation allowance, since a full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian and Serbian deferred tax assets, and a decrease in the deferred income tax benefit related to employee benefits. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Current liabilities at year end 2009 decreased by $304 million from year end 2009 due mainly to lower payroll and benefits payable resulting from the absence of accruals for profit based payments and lower accrued taxes resulting from reduced net income in 2009 compared to 2008. Several balance sheet accounts changed as a result of an improvement in the net funded status of our pension and other employee benefits plans. Employee benefits decreased by $624 million and the accumulated other comprehensive loss decreased by $541 billion. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The decrease in the accumulated other comprehensive loss was also due to foreign currency translation effects as a result of the weakening U.S. dollar versus the Euro and the Canadian dollar. The increase in long term debt from December 31, 2008 was mainly due to our public offering in May 2009 of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014, partially offset by the repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. See Liquidity. Common stock and Additional paid in capital increased by $27 million and $666 million, respectively, compared to year end 2008 primarily as a result of our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May 2009. See Liquidity. Cash Flows Net cash used in operating activities was $61 million in 2009 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1,658 million in 2008 and $1,732 million in 2007. This change was primarily related to a net loss of approximately $696 million after adjustments for noncash items in 2009 compared to income of approximately $2.6 billion after adjustments for noncash items in 2008. The favorable working capital change in 2009 of approximately $1.3 billion mainly reflected lower inventory and receivables levels, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items in 2008 compared to 2007 was more than offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency translation effects due mainly to the strengthening of the U. S. dollar and unfavorable working capital effects (excluding the 2007 acquisitions). The unfavorable working capital change in 2008 mainly reflected higher inventory levels and the repurchase of receivables, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities for 2009 was increased and net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 and 2007 was reduced by employee benefits payments as shown in the following table. 67 Table of Contents Employee Benefits Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ 140 $ 140 $ 140 Required contributions to other defined benefit pension plans 79 73 23 Other employee benefits payments not funded by trusts 285 236 213 Contributions to trusts for retiree health care and life insurance(a) 12 228 498 Payments to a multiemployer pension plan 58 33 30 Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts 84 29 17 Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ 658 $ 739 $ 921 (a) Includes $143 million in 2008 and $468 million in 2007 for a company contribution to U. S. Steels trust for retiree health care and life insurance fulfilling the Companys obligation under an agreement with the USW regarding benefits for certain former National Steel employees. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and healthcare by the end of 2011. Capital expenditures variable interest entities was $147 million in 2009 and $161 million in 2008. This primarily reflects spending by Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) for a non recovery coke plant to supply Granite City Works. This spending is consolidated in our financial results but is funded by Gateway and, therefore, is completely offset by amounts included in distributions from noncontrolling interests, which is included in cash flow from financing activities. 68 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2009 of $472 million consisted largely of non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long term strategic importance, as we substantially reduced our capital spending from the original plan of $740 million to conserve liquidity. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $338 million in 2009included spending development of an enterprise resourceplanning (ERP) system, non discretionary environmentalprojects, maintenance on the No. 14 blast furnace at GaryWorks and cokemaking projects at Granite City Works andthe Clairton Plant, including the construction of acogeneration facility at Granite City Works. USSEexpenditures of $113 million included spending at USSK forthe maintenance of the No.3 blast furnace, a coke oven gasdesulphurization project and spending for development of theERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $465 million in 2008 included spending for modernization of our cokemaking facilities, including expenditures for construction of a cogeneration facility at Granite City Works, development of an ERP system and replacement of open pit mining equipment at our iron ore operations USSE expenditures of $210 million included spending at USSK for the reline of the No.1 blast furnace, for replacement of electrical power transformers and to upgrade a continuous caster, and spending for development of the ERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $418 million in 2007 included spending for development of an ERP system, blast furnace stove replacements at Granite City Works and Great Lakes Works, coke oven thru wall repairs primarily at our Clairton Plant and open pit mining equipment and an environmental project at our iron ore operations. USSE expenditures of $215 million included spending at USSK for an air emission reduction project and a new automotive quality galvanizing line, spending at USSS for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace, and spending for development of an ERP system. Construction of the new galvanizing line was completed in February 2007. 69 Table of Contents U. S. Steels contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2009, totaled $152 million. Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to total approximately $530 million and remain focused largely on environmental and other infrastructure projects. We continue to evaluate investments of long term strategic importance, including projects to invest in production of coke and coke substitutes, given that some of our existing coke batteries are approaching the end of their useful lives, to reduce coke requirements in Serbia through blast furnace coal injection, to enhance our Tubular operations in order to more efficiently serve customers increased focus on shale natural gas resources and to allow us to increase our participation in the automotive market as vehicle emission and safety requirements become more stringent. In light of the significant capital commitment that such projects would entail over the next several years, we may seek to secure some long term funding for such projects and general corporate purposes prior to committing to such projects. The preceding statement concerning expected 2010 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, ability to secure long term funding, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, receipt of necessary permits and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Z Line Company reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of pickle lines reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. reflected $2,050 million paid at closing, net of cash acquired of $71 million; plus $14 million of transaction costs to acquire all of the outstanding shares. Acquisition of Stelco Inc. reflected $1,237 million paid to acquire all of the outstanding stock and stock equivalents, $785 million paid to retire substantially all of the outstanding debt and $34 million paid to Stelcos main pension plans, net of cash acquired of $32 million; plus $13 million of transaction costs. Disposal of assets in 2009 reflected pre tax cash proceeds of approximately $300 million from the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E and $36 million from the sale of emissions allowances at U. S. Steel Koice (USSK). Restricted cash in 2009 primarily reflected collateral required on previously unsecured obligations. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2008 primarily reflected amounts drawn against a USSK 200 million three year revolving credit facility, the proceeds of which were used to reduce the Intercompany Loan (see Liquidity), as well as borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Repayments of revolving credit facilities in 2008 reflected repayment of borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Common stock issued in 2009 resulted from our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2009 resulted primarily from our public offering in May of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014. Also in 2009, we issued $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds (ERBs), maturing from 2017 to 2030. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the issuance of $300 million principal amount of 5.65% Senior Notes due 2013, $450 million principal amount of 70 Table of Contents 6.05% Senior Notes due 2017, $350 million principal amount of 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 and $500 million principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018; and our entrance into two $500 million term loans and a $400 million term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2009 primarily reflected repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. Also in 2009, we completed the refunding of $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds. See Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2008 primarily reflected payments on our term loans, including the early retirement of $300 million of our three year term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the early redemption of $378 million of 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010, the early redemption of $49 million of 10% Senior Quarterly Income Debt Securities due 2031 and the repayment of a $400 million term loan. Common stock repurchased in 2008 and 2007 totaled 2.0 million shares and 1.2 million shares, respectively. Our share repurchase program was originally authorized in July 2005. In 2006, our Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2009, 4.4 million shares remained authorized for repurchase. In late 2008, we suspended repurchases under this program as part of our reaction to the difficult global economic environment. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock 4th Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 1st Qtr. 2009 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.30 2008 $ 0.30 $ 0.30 $ 0.25 $ 0.25 2007 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 Liquidity The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2009: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,218 Amount available under $750 Million Credit Facility(b) 638 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 93 Amounts available under USSS credit facilities 55 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,504 (b) As of December 31, 2009, there were no amounts drawn on the Amended Credit Agreement and inventory levels supported the full $750 million of the facility. Since availability was greater than $112.5 million, compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio was not applicable. However, based on the most recent four quarters, as of December 31, 2009, we would not meet the fixed charge coverage ratio if we were to borrow more than $637.5 million. Therefore, we reduced the availability reflected by $112.5 million. 71 Table of Contents (a) Excludes $20 million, $20 million and $27 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, of cash primarily related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership (Partnership) because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. On October 31, 2008, we acquired the equity interests in the Partnership that we did not wholly own. Excludes $1 million of cash at December 31, 2008 related to our variable interest entities. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment and restatement of its $750 million Credit Agreement dated May 11, 2007 (Amended Credit Agreement) with a group of lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (Agent). U. S. Steel simultaneously entered into a security agreement with the Agent (Security Agreement) providing for a security interest in the majority of its domestic inventory. The Amended Credit Agreement established a borrowing base formula, which limits the amounts U. S. Steel can borrow to a certain percent of the value of certain domestic inventory less specified reserves, and eliminates the previous financial covenants that consisted of interest and leverage coverage ratios. The Amended Credit Agreement contains a new financial covenant requiring U. S. Steel to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (defined as consolidated EBITDA less certain capital expenditures and cash income tax expense to certain fixed charges) of at least 1.10 to 1.00 for the most recent four consecutive quarters when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million. The Amended Credit Agreement includes revised pricing and other customary terms and conditions, and will expire on May 11, 2012. For further information regarding the Amended Credit Agreement and Security Agreement, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) that provides up to $500 million of liquidity and letters of credit depending upon the number of eligible domestic receivables generated by U. S. Steel. The commitments under the RPA expire in September 2010. Domestic trade accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. If U. S. Steel decides to access this facility, USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables and if any of them are unable to fund such purchases, two banks are committed to do so. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into agreements which amended the RPA. These agreements increase certain reserve factors and percentages, provide for a termination event if there is a change of control of U. S. Steel, amend the definition of Eligible Receivables, change certain performance triggers and make conforming and clarifying changes. 72 Table of Contents The RPA may be terminated on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, failure by U. S. Steel to make payments under our material debt obligations and any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. For further information regarding the agreements, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. On May 4, 2009, U. S. Steel completed a public offering of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014 and 27,140,000 shares of its Common Stock. U. S. Steel received net proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion and used $655 million to repay all amounts outstanding under its three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Convertible Notes was $863 million. On December 11, 2009, USSK entered into a 10 million (approximately $14 million at December 31, 2009) unsecured revolving credit facility as the sole obligor. The facility expires January 2011. The facility bears interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contains other customary terms and conditions. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the facility. At December 31, 2009, USSK had no borrowings against its 40 million, 20 million and 10 million unsecured credit facilities (which approximated $101 million) but had $8 million of customs and other guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $93 million. At December 31, 2009, USSK had 200 million (approximately $288 million) fully drawn against a 200 million unsecured credit facility. USSK is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The 10 million facility expires January 2011, the 200 million facility expires July 2011, the 40 million facility expires October 2012 and the 20 million facility expires December 2012. During 2009, USSS amended its secured credit facility agreements to limit availability to the value of USSS inventory of finished and semi finished goods. These facilities include an 800 million Serbian dinar overdraft facility and a 40 million revolving credit facility (together approximately $69 million). USSS is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The facilities expire August 2010. At December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings against these facilities and availability was 39 million (approximately $55 million). On May 21, 2007, U. S. Steel issued a total of $1.1 billion of senior notes consisting of $350 million at 6.65 percent due 2037, $450 million at 6.05 percent due 2017, and $300 million at 5.65 percent due 2013, (collectively, the Senior Notes). The Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Notes was $1.1 billion. On December 10, 2007, U. S. Steel issued $500 million of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018 (the 2018 Senior Notes). The 2018 Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the 2018 Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. As of December 31, 2009, the principal amount outstanding under the 2018 Senior Notes was $500 million. We use surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. The use of some forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $150 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2009. Increases in these commitments which use collateral are reflected in restricted cash on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 73 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, in the event of a change in control of U. S. Steel, debt obligations totaling $2,462 million, which includes the Senior Notes and the Senior Convertible Notes, may be declared immediately due and payable. In such event, U. S. Steel may also be required to either repurchase the leased Fairfield slab caster for $45 million or provide a letter of credit to secure the remaining obligation. In the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, obligations of $354 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases, as well as $26 million relating to an operating lease, may be declared immediately due and payable. The guarantees of the indebtedness of unconsolidated entities of U. S. Steel totaled $11 million at December 31, 2009. In the event that any default related to the guaranteed indebtedness occurs, U. S. Steel has access to its interest in the assets of the investee to reduce its potential losses under the guarantee. U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $140 million to the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in both 2009 and 2008. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions of similar amounts in 2010 or later periods in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory contributions in later years. The contributions actually required will be greatly influenced by the level of voluntary contributions, the performance of pension fund assets in the financial markets, the elective use or disavowal of existing credit balances in future periods and various other economic factors and actuarial assumptions that may come to influence the level of the funded position in future years. The 2008 Collective Bargaining Agreements (see Note 17) require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions during the contract period to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance. This contribution is in addition to an annual $10 million required contribution to the same trust that continues from an earlier agreement. Under this earlier agreement, a $20 million contribution is required if the Company does not contribute at least $75 million to its main pension plan in the prior year. During 2008, the Company made $85 million in contributions to the trust under these agreements, as well as a $143 million contribution to cover some of the health and life benefits for certain retirees of National Steel Corporation. During the first quarter of 2009, the Company made a $10 million contribution to this trust. In April 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the annual $75 million mandatory contributions due in 2009 and the $10 million contribution due in January 2010. Further, the USW has agreed to permit us to use all or part of the $75 million contribution made in 2008 to pay current retiree health care and life insurance claims, subject to a make up contribution in 2013. Through December 31, 2009, none of the 2008 contribution funds have been used by the Company. In conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco, now USSC (see Note 4), U. S. Steel assumed the pension plan funding agreement (the Pension Agreement) that Stelco had entered into with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Province) on March 31, 2006 that covers USSCs four main pension plans. The Pension Agreement requires minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and additional annual contributions for benefit improvements, which currently are limited to the union retiree indexing provisions. The defined annual contributions will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. In its acquisition of Stelco on October 31, 2007, U. S. Steel assumed liability for a note issued to the Province of Ontario (Province Note) (see Note 4 to the Financial Statements). The face amount of the Province Note is C$150 million (approximately $142 million at December 31, 2009) and is payable on December 31, 2015. The Province Note is unsecured and is subject to a 75 percent discount if the solvency deficiencies in the four main USSC pension plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements) are eliminated on or before the maturity date. 74 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2009, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Long term debt (including interest) and capital leases(a) $ 4,954 $ 202 $ 943 $ 1,414 $ 2,395 Operating leases(b) $ 173 40 59 34 40 Unconditional purchase obligations(c) $ 11,540 4,442 2,627 1,305 3,166 Capital commitments(d) $ 152 114 38 Environmental commitments(d) $ 203 17 186 (e) Steelworkers Pension Trust $ 286 (f) 54 113 119 (f) (f) Pensions(g) $ 451 83 153 145 70 Other benefits(h) $ 1,940 (i) 415 880 645 (i) Unrecognized tax positions $ 106 106 (e) Total contractual obligations $ 19,805 $ 5,367 $ 4,813 $ 3,662 $ 5,963 (a) See Note 16 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Amounts exclude subleases. (c) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. Additionally, includes coke and steam purchase commitments related to a coke supply agreement with Gateway Energy & Coke Company LLC (See Note 18). (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Timing of potential cash flows is not reasonably determinable. (f) While It is difficult to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, which expire in 2012, projected amounts shown through 2014 assume that the current $2.65 contribution rate per hour will apply. (g) Amounts shown represent projected cash requirements for USSC pension plans, most of which relates to a funding scheme for USSCs four main plans, whereby under an agreement with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Pension Agreement), USSC is responsible for minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and smaller annual contributions for benefit improvements related to prior cost of living adjustments. The Pension Agreement will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015 when minimum funding requirements under the Pension Benefits Act will resume. U.S. dollar equivalents of contributions are based on foreign exchange rates as of December 31, 2009 and shown projected through 2015. (h) Excludes profit based payments that may be required through September 1, 2012, pursuant to the provisions of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments that may be required. (i) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for retiree medical and retiree life benefit obligations which require the use of corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2010 through 2014 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and include mandatory contributions to the USW VEBA trust of $75 million in 2010 and $85 million in both 2011 and 2012. Projected amounts do not reflect optional drawdowns from the USW VEBA trust if U. S. Steel decides to utilize certain options available under its agreements with the USW. Amounts to be used from the VEBA trust will be determined in 2010 and later years. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the asset trust mix, medical escalation rates and company decisions or restrictions related to our trusts for retiree healthcare and life insurance that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Due to these factors, amounts shown above could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. 75 Table of Contents Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table except for the contributions required for USSCs defined benefit pension plans. (See footnote (g) of the above table). U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and other benefits during 2010 and 2011. U. S. Steel may make voluntary contributions in 2010 or later periods to the main defined benefit pension plan in the United States in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory required contributions in later years. In addition to the USSC amounts included in the above table, U. S. Steel expects to make cash payments of $15 million to other pension plans not funded by trusts. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2009, and the effect such commitments could have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 122 $ 109 $ $ $ 13 (c) Surety bonds(a) 18 18 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 33 33 (c) Marathon Oil Corporation(a)(b) 26 26 Total commercial commitments $ 199 $ 109 $ 26 $ $ 64 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) Reflects the amount of U. S. Steels operating lease obligations that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. Our major cash requirements in 2010 are expected to be for capital expenditures, employee benefits and working capital requirements. We finished 2009 with $1.2 billion of available cash. As business conditions recover, our working capital requirements will likely increase and we may need to draw upon our credit facilities for necessary cash. Funding under the RPA and the Amended Credit Agreement is based on a pool of eligible domestic receivables and domestic inventory, respectively, both of which have declined as a result of lower orders and our efforts to reduce working capital. A sudden increase in orders could require a significant amount of investment in working capital. Should we experience a significant increase in orders or an unexpected need for funds that cannot be met with available cash and our liquidity facilities, we may need to access the capital markets. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy our obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Our opinion regarding liquidity is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than recent levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Debt and Senior Convertible Notes Ratings The ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt by Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) are BB and Ba3, respectively. On January 27, 2010, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) lowered its ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt from BBB to BB+ and revised its outlook to stable. Any further downgrades could reduce our access to the capital markets and increase our financing costs. 76 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, a portion of the labor force used by the investees is provided by U. S. Steel, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. In September 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utilities at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a cogeneration facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. U. S. Steel is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay annual capacity and operating and maintenance fees. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, which was effective January 1, 2004. During the initial 5 year period, U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that were annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Other guarantees, indemnifications and take or pay arrangements are discussed in Notes 18 and 28 to the Financial Statements. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations and similar obligations in Europe and Canada, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent that these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that our major North American, and many European, integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that our relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills, some foreign steel producers (particularly in developing economies such as China) and producers of materials which compete with steel, all of which may not be required to incur equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to our prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Many of our competitors do not have similar historical liabilities. Our U. S. facilities are subject to the U.S. environmental standards, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. 77 Table of Contents USSC is subject to the environmental laws of Canada, which are comparable to environmental standards in the United States. Environmental regulation in Canada is an area of shared responsibility between the federal government and the provincial governments, which in turn delegate certain matters to municipal governments. Federal environmental statutes include the federal Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 and the Fisheries Act. Various provincial statutes regulate environmental matters such as the release and remediation of hazardous substances; waste storage, treatment and disposal; and air emissions. As in the United States, Canadian environmental laws (federal, provincial and local) are undergoing revision and becoming more stringent. The Canadian and Ontario governments have identified a sediment deposit in Hamilton Harbor near USSCs Hamilton Works for remediation, which the regulatory agencies estimated several years ago will require expenditures of approximately C$90 million (approximately $85 million). The national and provincial governments have each allocated C$30 million (approximately $28 million) for this project and they have stated that they will be looking for local sources, including industry, to fund the remaining one third. USSC has committed C$7 million (approximately $7 million) as its contribution. Additional contributions may be sought. USSK is subject to the environmental laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). A related law of the EU commonly known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, Regulation 1907/2006) requires the registration of certain substances that are produced in the EU or imported into the EU. USSK pre registered various substances during the six month pre registration period that ended November 30, 2008, both on its own behalf and on behalf of U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries that may be shipping products into the EU. USSK is compliant with REACH and intends to register its substances by the applicable deadlines to remain in compliance and be able to continue its businesses without material change. USSS is subject to the environmental laws of Serbia. Under the terms of the acquisition in 2003, USSS is responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study in June 2004, which was submitted to the Government of Serbia. During 2008 and 2009, USSS spent approximately $50 million to reduce air particulate emissions and undertake other environmental projects pursuant to an agreement with the Serbian government. Many nations, including all where we operate, have or are considering the regulation of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Regulation of CO2 emissions is relevant to the steel industry and U. S. Steel. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States House of Representatives has passed a bill, a bill has been introduced to the Senate and the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified CO2 as a harmful gas. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 North America: Capital $ 28 $ 44 $ 21 Compliance Operating & maintenance 294 409 278 Remediation(a) 19 27 28 Total North America $ 341 $ 480 $ 327 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 55 $ 51 Compliance Operating & maintenance 16 17 18 Remediation(a) 7 18 7 Total USSE $ 90 $ 90 $ 76 Total U. S. Steel $ 431 $ 570 $ 403 (a) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. 78 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 20 percent of total capital expenditures in 2009, 11 percent in 2008 and 10 percent in 2007. Environmental compliance expenditures represented three percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2009 and two percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2008 and 2007. Remediation spending during 2007 through 2009 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at our Fairless Plant and Lorain Tubular Operations. RCRA corrective action programs have been initiated at Gary Works, Fairfield Works and USS POSCO Industries. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. The following table shows activity with respect to environmental remediation liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 410. Environmental Remediation Liabilities (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Beginning Balance $ 162 $ 142 Plus: Additions 57 37 Less: Payments (16 ) (17 ) Ending Balance $ 203 $ 162 New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2010. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $168 million in 2010, $89 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2010 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2011, including $26 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at USSC assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic 79 Table of Contents downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active asbestoscases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional details concerning asbestos litigation see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel will vigorously defend these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Outlook for First Quarter 2010 We expect to report an overall operating loss in first quarter 2010 as gradually improving business conditions begin to be reflected in our operating results. We continue to experience improved order rates from several of our end markets. Automotive, service center, converter and appliance customer order rates in North America and Europe are at or near their highest levels in the last twelve months, while in other markets, such as construction, demand remains soft, but due to the low levels of inventory and the anticipated seasonal increases in activity at the end of the first quarter, our construction order book remains stable for both North America and Europe. A gradually strengthening economy should result in improvements in real demand, while apparent demand will likely be positively influenced by the restocking of the manufacturing supply chain, which we believe is under way. Relatively low levels of flat rolled product imports, if continued, are also expected to support improved order rates. Our Tubular operations are also continuing to experience favorable demand trends, most notably in alloy product at our welded operations in East Texas. At the same time, spot market prices are increasing across all of our segments in response to increased order rates and global raw material cost pressures. We continue to believe that the U.S. and global economies are in the early stages of a gradual recovery. While we are becoming more optimistic, primarily due to improvements we are starting to see in the manufacturing sector, we remain cautious in our outlook for end user demand. 80 Table of Contents Flat rolled results for first quarter 2010 are expected to improve from fourth quarter 2009. The benefits of increases in average realized prices and shipments, efficiencies from increased operating rates and reduced facility repair and maintenance costs are expected to be partially offset by the absence of approximately $55 million of favorable effects from LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Average realized prices are expected to increase from fourth quarter 2009 as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. Increases in our index based contract prices would be realized later as higher published market price assessments enter the index calculations for future periods. We are currently making steel at six of our seven North American steelmaking locations, with the exception being our Lake Erie Works, which represents approximately ten percent of our annual Flat rolled raw steel capability. We expect to complete maintenance work on our largest blast furnace, the #14 Blast Furnace at Gary Works, late in the first quarter and have all available capacity in operation at these six locations before the end of the quarter. Overall, raw steel capability utilization rates are expected to increase from the fourth quarter of 2009. First quarter 2010 results for USSE are expected to be comparable to fourth quarter 2009 as the benefits of increased shipments and operating efficiencies are expected to be offset by higher raw material costs. Euro based transaction prices are expected to be slightly higher than the fourth quarter as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to be lower due to foreign currency translation effects. We completed maintenance work on the #3 Blast Furnace at USSK in early February and we are currently operating all five of USSEs blast furnaces. We expect our Tubular operations to remain profitable in the first quarter. However, results are expected to decrease from the fourth quarter as the benefits of increased shipments are expected to be offset by increased costs as we continue to increase production to meet increased order rates, as well as the absence of $10 million of favorable fourth quarter items related to favorable effects of LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Seamless and welded tubular product prices are expected to improve throughout the quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to decrease as compared to the fourth quarter due to a higher proportion of welded tubular product shipments. We expect increased operating rates at all of our pipe facilities in the first quarter, most notably our welded pipe facility in East Texas. These expected increases should also benefit our Flat rolled operations that supply substrate requirements to our welded pipe facilities. Accounting Standards In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (FAS 167). FAS 167 is a revision to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, and amends the consolidation guidance for variable interest entities. Additionally, FAS 167 will require additional disclosures about involvement with variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure due to that involvement. FAS 167 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 167 will result in the deconsolidation of certain of our current variable interest entities, including, Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC due to the addition of the power criteria in paragraph 14 of FAS 167. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 810, Consolidations Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities, to incorporate FAS 167. In June 2009, the FASB issued FAS No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets (FAS 166). FAS 166 is a revision to FAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, and will require more information about transfer of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and enhanced disclosures when companies have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. Additionally, FAS 166 eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity. FAS 166 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 166 will result in any Receivables Purchase Agreement transactions being accounted for as secured borrowing transactions as of January 1, 2010. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, to incorporate FAS 166. See note 19 for further details of our accounts receivable facility. 81 Table of Contents Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage our market and exchange rate risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain commodity or currency transactions. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the transaction is settled. Once the transaction is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. For further information regarding derivative instruments see Notes 1 and 15 to the Financial Statements. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, through USSE and USSC, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the euro, the Serbian dinar and the Canadian dollar. U. S. Steel historically has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. U. S. Steel has not elected to use hedge accounting for these contracts. Foreign currency derivative instruments have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in net interest and other financial costs. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sales contracts for U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $185 million and $363 million, respectively). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2009 euro forward rates would result in a $19 million charge to income. The fair value of our derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs, which are defined as significant other observable inputs. The inputs used include quotes from counterparties that are corroborated with market sources. Future foreign currency impacts will depend upon changes in currencies, the extent to which we engage in derivatives transactions and the balance of the Intercompany Loan. The amount and timing of such borrowings or repayments on the Intercompany Loan will depend upon profits and cash flows of our international operations, future international investments and financing activities, all of which will be impacted by market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices and foreign exchange rates. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of our business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and zinc, tin and other nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for our products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel has made forward physical purchases to manage exposure to price risk related to the purchases of natural gas and certain non ferrous metals used in the production process. Historically, the forward physical purchase contracts for natural gas and nonferrous metals have qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 815. However, 82 Table of Contents due to reduced natural gas consumption in 2009, we net settled some of our excess natural gas purchase contracts for certain facilities. Therefore, the remaining contracts for natural gas at those facilities no longer met the exemption criteria and were therefore subject to mark to market accounting. As of December 31, 2009, there are no longer natural gas purchase contracts subject to mark to market accounting. Fixed price forward physical purchase contracts entered into for 2010 to partially manage our exposure to natural gas price risk qualify for the normal purchases normal sales exemption. The fair value of our natural gas derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs. The inputs used include forward prices derived from the New York Mercantile Exchange. A 10 percent decrease in natural gas prices for open derivative instruments as of December 31, 2009, would not result in a material charge to income. U. S. Steel held commodity contracts for natural gas that qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption with a total notional value of approximately $44 million at December 31, 2009. Total commodity contracts for natural gas represent approximately 12 percent of our expected North American natural gas requirements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of our non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent increase/decrease in year end 2009 and 2008 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase inFair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 26 $ 0 $ 23 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 4,004 $ 172 $ 2,650 $ 106 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008. (d) For additional information see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on the yield on our public debt where available or current borrowing rates available for financings with similar terms and maturities. For additional information see Note 16 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of our debt portfolio would unfavorably affect our results and cash flows only to the extent that we elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt included 200 million ($288 million) of borrowing under a floating rate revolving credit facility, the fair value of which is not affected by interest rate declines. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 83 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. Certain sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis include forward looking statements concerning trends or events potentially affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel. These statements typically contain words such as anticipates, believes, estimates, expects or similar words indicating that future outcomes are not known with certainty and are subject to risk factors that could cause these outcomes to differ significantly from those projected. In accordance with safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, these statements are accompanied by cautionary language identifying important factors, though not necessarily all such factors, that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in forward looking statements. For discussion of risk factors affecting the businesses of U. S. Steel see Item 1A Risk Factors and Supplementary Data Disclosures About Forward Looking Statements. Overview U. S. Steel, the tenth largest steel producer in the world and the largest integrated steel producer headquartered in North America, has a broad and diverse mix of products and customers. U. S. Steel uses iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions to produce a wide range of flat rolled and tubular steel products, concentrating on value added steel products for customers with demanding technical applications in the automotive, appliance, container, industrial machinery, construction and oil, gas and petrochemical industries. In addition to our facilities in the United States, U. S. Steel has significant operations in Canada through U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) and in Europe through U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), located in Slovakia, and U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), located in Serbia. U. S. Steels financial results are primarily determined by the combined effects of shipment volume, selling prices, production costs and product mix. While the operating results of our various businesses are affected by a number of business specific factors (see Item 1. Business Steel Industry Background and Competition), the primary drivers for U. S. Steel are general economic conditions in North America, Europe and, to a lesser extent, other steel consuming regions; the levels of worldwide steel production and consumption; pension and other benefits costs; and raw material (iron ore, coal, coke, steel scrap, zinc, tin and other metallic additions) and energy (natural gas and electricity) costs. Following several years of strong performance, the steel industry and U. S. Steel were quickly and severely impacted by the global recession starting in late 2008. In response to these economic conditions, our strategy has been to enhance our liquidity, maintain a solid balance sheet and position ourselves for success in the longer term. In late 2008 and early 2009, we idled all or portions of numerous steel making, finishing, raw materials and tubular operations in the U.S., Canada and Europe and operated our remaining facilities at reduced levels to match our customers lower demand requirements. We continue to monitor the impact of the economic situation on our customers and to adjust our operations to efficiently meet their requirements. Our raw steel capability utilization rate in 2009 was 48% for Flat rolled operations and 69% for USSE operations. With respect to financial matters, we reduced our quarterly dividend, completed successful offerings of senior convertible notes and common stock and renegotiated the provisions of existing financial covenants with lenders. We initiated substantial cost reduction activities at all locations, including reducing our non represented workforce through restructuring, attrition and early retirement programs. We agreed with the United Steel Workers (USW) to defer certain mandatory trust contributions, implemented a hiring freeze, eliminated merit pay salary increases, suspended the Company match on our 401(k) program, and reduced fees for Board of Directors and base salaries for all general managers and executives. We significantly reduced our capital expenditures for 2009 from the original plan of $740 million to $472 million by focusing largely on non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. We voluntarily contributed $140 million to the main defined benefit plan as we still believe that this is appropriate to mitigate larger potential funding requirements in the future. We refinanced $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds extending their maturity dates from 2011 to maturity dates ranging from 2017 to 2030. We finished the year with total liquidity of $2.5 billion, an improvement of nearly $300 million from the average of the previous five year ends. 52 Table of Contents U. S. Steels long term success depends on our ability to earn a competitive return on capital employed by implementing our strategy to be a world leader in safety and environmental performance; to continue to increase our value added product mix; to further expand our global business platform; to maintain a strong capital structure, balance sheet and liquidity position; to continue to improve our reliability and cost competitiveness; and to attract and retain a diverse and talented workforce. For a fuller description of our strategy, see Item 1. Business Description Business Strategy. Some of the other key issues which are impacting the global steel industry, including U. S. Steel, are the level of unfunded pension and other benefits obligations; the degree of industry consolidation; the impact of production and consumption of steel in China and other developing countries; and the levels of steel imports into the markets we serve. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of U. S. Steels financial condition and results of operations is based upon U. S. Steels financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting standards generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at year end, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the year. Management regularly evaluates these estimates, including those related to employee benefits liabilities and assets held in trust relating to such liabilities; the carrying value of property, plant and equipment; goodwill and intangible assets; valuation allowances for receivables, inventories and deferred income tax assets; liabilities for deferred income taxes, potential tax deficiencies, environmental obligations and potential litigation claims and settlements. Managements estimates are based on historical experience, current business and market conditions, and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the following are the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost or market. LIFO (last in, first out) is the predominant method of inventory costing for inventories in the United States and FIFO (first in, first out) is the predominant method used in Canada and Europe. The LIFO method of inventory costing was used for 49 percent and 39 percent of consolidated inventories at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Equity Method Investments Investments in entities over which U. S. Steel has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are carried at U. S. Steels share of net assets plus loans, advances and our share of earnings less distributions. Differences in the basis of the investment and the underlying net asset value of the investee, if any, are amortized into earnings over the remaining useful life of the associated assets. Income from investees includes U. S. Steels share of income from equity method investments, which is generally recorded a month in arrears, except for significant and unusual items which are recorded in the period of occurrence. Gains or losses from changes in ownership of unconsolidated investees are recognized in the period of change. Intercompany profits and losses on transactions with equity investees have been eliminated in consolidation subject to lower of cost or market inventory adjustments. U. S. Steel evaluates impairment of its equity method investments whenever circumstances indicate that a decline in value below carrying value is other than temporary. Under these circumstances, we would adjust the investment down to its estimated fair value, which then becomes its new carrying value. Pensions and Other Benefits The recording of net periodic benefit costs for defined benefit pensions and other benefits is based on, among other things, assumptions of the expected annual return on plan assets, discount rate, escalation or other changes in retiree health care costs and plan participation levels. Changes in the 53 Table of Contents assumptions or differences between actual and expected changes in the present value of liabilities or assets of U. S. Steels plans could cause net periodic benefit costs to increase or decrease materially from year to year as discussed below. U. S. Steels investment strategy for its U.S. pension and other benefits plan assets provides for a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality bonds and selected smaller investments in private equities, investment trusts, timber and mineral interests. For its U.S. pension plans, U. S. Steel has a target allocation for plan assets of 60 percent equities with the balance primarily invested in corporate bonds and government backed bonds and Treasury bills. For the Other Benefit plans, the target allocation for plan assets is 65 percent equities. U. S. Steel also believes that returns on equities over the long term will be higher than returns from fixed income securities as actual historical returns from U. S. Steels trusts have shown. Returns on bonds tend to offset some of the shorter term volatility of stocks. Both equity and fixed income investments are made across a broad range of industries and companies to provide protection against the impact of volatility in any single industry as well as company specific developments. U. S. Steel is currently using an 8.00 percent assumed rate of return for purposes of the expected return on assets for the development of net periodic cost for the main defined benefit pension plan and Other Benefits. This rate was chosen by taking into account the intended asset mix and the historical premiums that fixed income and equity investments have yielded above government bonds. Actual returns since the inception of the plans have exceeded this 8.00 percent rate and while some recent annual returns have not, it is U. S. Steels expectation that future periods will return to this level. For USSC defined benefit pension plans, U. S. Steels investment strategy is similar to its strategy for U.S. plans, whereby the Company seeks a diversified mix of large and mid cap equities, high quality corporate and government bonds and selected smaller investments with a target allocation for plan assets of 65 percent equities. A 7.50 percent rate of return is being used for the development of net periodic costs in 2010 which is lower than the U.S. pension plan assumption as subcategories within the asset mix are from a more limited investment universe and, as a result, have a lower expected return. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate used to measure both domestic pension and other benefits obligations to 5.5 percent from 6.0 percent. The discount rate reflects the current rate at which we estimate the pension and other benefits liabilities could be effectively settled at the measurement date. In setting the domestic rates, we utilize several AAA and AA corporate bond indices as an indication of interest rate movements and levels, and we also look to an internally calculated rate determined by matching our expected benefit payments to payments from a stream of AA or higher rated zero coupon corporate bonds theoretically available in the marketplace. For USSC benefit plans, a discount rate was selected through a similar review process using Canadian bond rates and indices and at December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel decreased the discount rate to 6.0 percent from 6.5 percent for its Canadian based pension and other benefits. U. S. Steel determines the escalation trend in per capita health care costs based on historical rate experience under U. S. Steels insurance plans. Much of our costs for the domestic USW participants retiree health benefits (other than for most surviving spouses) in the Companys main domestic insurance plan are subject to a cost cap that was negotiated in 2003. As a result of the collective bargaining agreements with the USW entered into effective September 1, 2008 (the 2008 CBAs) (see Note 17 to the Financial Statements), our costs are subject to the full impact of escalation for the surviving spouse beneficiaries since their retiree premium contributions are now a flat fixed amount. Escalation applies to most other groups within the Companys insurance plans, but does not apply to most domestic non union retirees since their benefits are limited to flat dollar amounts. For measurement of its domestic retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 8.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2015 and remain at that level thereafter. For measurement of its Canadian retiree medical plans, U. S. Steel has assumed an initial escalation rate of 7.0 percent for 2010. This rate is assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0 percent in 2014 and remain at that level thereafter. Net periodic pension cost, including multiemployer plans, is expected to total approximately $270 million in 2010 compared to $271 million in 2009. Pension cost for 2009 included $80 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Total other benefits costs in 2010 are expected to be approximately $150 million, compared to $191 million in 2009. Other benefit costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and curtailment losses. Excluding the 2009 settlement, termination and curtailment losses, the expected increase in total pension cost is primarily due to a lower market related value of plan assets primarily due to further recognition of the asset losses that were incurred in 2008. 54 Table of Contents A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical  1/2 percentage point change in the significant assumptions used in the pension and other benefits calculations is provided in the following table: Hypothetical RateIncrease (Decrease) (In millions of dollars) 1/2% (1/2%) Expected return on plan assets Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension cost for 2010 $ (52 ) $ 52 Discount rate Incremental increase (decrease) in: Net periodic pension & other benefits costs for 2010 $ (22 ) $ 32 Pension & other benefits liabilities at December 31, 2009 $ (613 ) $ 658 Health care cost escalation trend rates Incremental increase (decrease) in: Service and interest cost components for 2010 $ 8 $ (7 ) Changes in the assumptions for expected annual return on plan assets and the discount rate do not impact the funding calculations used to derive minimum funding requirements for the pension plans. For further cash flow discussion see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Liquidity. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost over the fair value of acquired identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities assumed from businesses acquired. We have two reporting units that have a significant amount of goodwill. Our Flat rolled reporting unit was allocated goodwill from the Stelco and Lone Star acquisitions in 2007. These amounts reflect the benefits we expect the Flat rolled reporting unit to realize from expanding our flexibility in meeting our customers needs and running our Flat rolled facilities at higher operating rates to source our semi finished product needs. Our Texas Operations reporting unit, which is part of our Tubular operating segment, was allocated goodwill from the Lone Star acquisition, reflecting the benefits we expect the reporting unit to realize from the expansion of our tubular operations. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the third quarter and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The evaluation of impairment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the associated reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. U. S. Steel completed its annual goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of 2009 and determined that there was no goodwill impairment for either reporting unit. Fair value was determined in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820 on fair value, which requires consideration of the income, market and cost approaches as applicable. For the 2009 annual goodwill impairment test, U. S. Steel used fair values estimated under the income approach and the market approach. Although considered, U. S. Steel did not utilize the cost approach as relevant data was not available. The income approach is based upon projected future cash flows discounted to present value using factors that consider the timing and risk associated with the future cash flows. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using probability weighted scenarios of future cash flow projections based on managements long range estimates of market conditions over a multiple year horizon. A three percent perpetual growth rate was used to arrive at an estimated future terminal value. A discount rate of 11 percent was used for both reporting units which was based upon the cost of capital of other comparable steel companies, which we view as the most likely market participants. The market approach is based upon an analysis of valuation metrics for companies comparable to our reporting units. Fair value for the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units was estimated using an appropriate valuation multiple based on this analysis, estimated normalized earnings and an estimated control premium. 55 Table of Contents In order to validate the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units, a reconciliation of the aggregate fair values of all reporting units to market capitalization, using a reasonable control premium, was performed as of the valuation date. We further validated the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of our reporting units using other valuation metrics that included data from historical U. S. Steel transactions as well as published analyst reports. As of December 31, 2009, the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units have $876 million and $849 million of goodwill, respectively. The 2009 annual goodwill impairment test showed that the estimated fair values of our Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units exceeded their carrying values by approximately $1.0 billion and $234 million, respectively. A 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, a critical assumption in which even a minor change can have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, would decrease the fair value of the Flat rolled and Texas Operations reporting units by $676 million and $112 million, respectively, but would still result in no goodwill impairment charge. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit under the income approach are determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions, including assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. If business conditions deteriorate or other factors have an adverse effect on our estimates of discounted future cash flows or assumed growth rates, future tests of goodwill impairment may result in an impairment charge. U. S. Steel has determined that certain acquired intangible assets have indefinite useful lives. These assets are reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Long lived assets U. S. Steel evaluates long lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of those productive assets exceed their projected undiscounted cash flows. We evaluate the impairment of long lived assets at the asset group level. Our asset groupings are the same as our reporting units. Taxes U. S. Steel records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In the event that U. S. Steel determines that it would be able to realize deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would increase income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should U. S. Steel determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of our deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. U. S. Steel expects to generate future taxable income to realize the benefits of our net deferred tax assets. U. S. Steel makes no provision for deferred U.S. income taxes on undistributed foreign earnings because as of December 31, 2009, it remained managements intention to continue indefinitely to reinvest such earnings in foreign operations. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Undistributed foreign earnings at December 31, 2009 amounted to approximately $2,901 million. If such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested, a U.S. deferred tax liability of approximately $870 million would have been required. U. S. Steel records liabilities for potential tax deficiencies. These liabilities are based on managements judgment of the risk of loss for items that have been or may be challenged by taxing authorities. In the event that U. S. Steel were to determine that tax related items would not be considered deficiencies or that items previously not considered to be potential deficiencies could be considered potential tax deficiencies (as a result of an audit, court case, tax ruling or other authoritative tax position), an adjustment to the liability would be recorded through income in the period such determination was made. Environmental Remediation U. S. Steel provides for remediation costs and penalties when the responsibility to remediate is probable and the amount of associated costs is reasonably determinable. Remediation liabilities are accrued based on estimates of known environmental exposures and are discounted in certain instances. 56 Table of Contents U. S. Steel regularly monitors the progress of environmental remediation. Should studies indicate that the cost of remediation is to be more than previously estimated, an additional accrual would be recorded in the period in which such determination was made. As of December 31, 2009, the total accrual for environmental remediation was $203 million, excluding liabilities related to asset retirement obligations. Due to uncertainties inherent in remediation projects, it is possible that total remediation costs for active matters may exceed the accrued liability by as much as 15 to 30 percent. Segments U. S. Steel has three reportable operating segments: Flat rolled Products (Flat rolled), U. S. Steel Europe (USSE) and Tubular Products (Tubular). The results of several operating segments that do not constitute reportable segments are combined and disclosed in the Other Businesses category. Effective with the fourth quarter of 2008, the operating results of our iron ore operations, which were previously included in Other Businesses, are included in the Flat rolled segment. The iron ore operations are managed as part of our Flat rolled segment, which consumes almost all of our iron ore production. Prior periods have been restated to reflect this change. The Flat rolled segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels North American integrated steel mills and equity investees involved in the production of slabs, rounds, strip mill plates, sheets and tin mill products , as well as all iron ore and coke production facilities in the United States and Canada. The steel rounds and a portion of the hot rolled sheets produced by Flat rolled are supplied to the Tubular segment. These operations primarily serve North American customers in the service center, conversion, transportation (including automotive), construction, container, and appliance and electrical markets. Flat rolled has annual raw steel production capability of 24.3 million tons. Flat rolled had annual raw steel production capability of 20.2 million tons for the year ended December 31, 2007 as annual raw steel production capability includes U. S. Steel Canada (USSC) from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Raw steel production was 11.7 million tons in 2009, 19.2 million tons in 2008 and 16.8 million tons in 2007. Raw steel production averaged 48 percent of capability in 2009, 79 percent of capability in 2008 and 83 percent of capability in 2007. The USSE segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steel Koice (USSK), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and coke production facilities in Slovakia; U. S. Steel Serbia (USSS), U. S. Steels integrated steel mill and other facilities in Serbia; and equity investees located in Europe. USSE primarily serves customers in the European construction, service center, conversion, container, transportation (including automotive), appliance and electrical, and oil, gas and petrochemical markets. USSE produces and sells slabs, sheet, strip mill plate, tin mill products and spiral welded pipe, as well as heating radiators and refractory ceramic materials. USSE has annual raw steel production capability of 7.4 million tons. USSEs raw steel production was 5.1 million tons in 2009, 6.4 million tons in 2008 and 6.8 million tons in 2007. USSEs raw steel production averaged 69 percent of capability in 2009, 86 percent of capability in 2008 and 92 percent of capability in 2007. The Tubular segment includes the operating results of U. S. Steels tubular production facilities, primarily in the United States, and equity investees in the United States and Brazil. These operations produce and sell seamless and electric resistance welded (ERW) steel casing and tubing (commonly known as oil country tubular goods or OCTG), standard and line pipe and mechanical tubing and primarily serve customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical markets. Tubulars annual production capability is 2.8 million tons. All other U. S. Steel businesses not included in reportable segments are reflected in Other Businesses. These businesses include transportation services (railroad and barge operations), real estate operations and engineering consulting services. For further information, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. 57 Table of Contents Net Sales (a) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Net Sales by Segment (Dollars in millions, excluding intersegment sales) 2009 2008 2007(b) Flat rolled(a) $ 6,814 $ 13,789 $ 9,986 USSE 2,944 5,487 4,667 Tubular 1,216 4,251 1,985 Total sales from reportable segments 10,974 23,527 16,638 Other Businesses(a) 74 227 235 Net sales $ 11,048 $ 23,754 $ 16,873 (a) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements. (b) Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007 and USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007. Managements analysis of the percentage change in net sales for U. S. Steels reportable business segments is set forth in the following tables: Year Ended December 31, 2009 versus Year Ended December 31, 2008 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 40 % 8 % 0 % 1 % 2 % 51 % USSE 20 % 20 % 1 % 3 % 2 % 46 % Tubular 63 % 5 % 1 % 0 % 4 % 71 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The decrease in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected decreased shipments (down 7.0 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $129 per net ton). The decrease in sales for USSE was primarily due to decreased shipments (down 1.2 million net tons) and lower average realized euro based transaction prices (down $295 per net ton including foreign currency translation effects). The decrease in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from decreased shipments (down 1.3 million net tons) and lower average realized prices (down $286 per net ton). 58 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 versus Year Ended December 31, 2007 Steel Products(a) Volume Price Mix FX(b) Coke & Other Net Change Flat rolled 19 % 19 % 1 % 0 % 1 % 38 % USSE 7 % 18 % 1 % 7 % 1 % 18 % Tubular 40 % 64 % 4 % 0 % 6 % 114 % (a) Excludes intersegment sales (b) Foreign currency translation effects The increase in sales for Flat rolled primarily reflected higher average realized prices (up $138 per ton) and increased shipments, primarily due to the inclusion of USSC for all of 2008. The increase in sales for USSE was primarily due to higher average realized euro based transaction prices and currency translation effects, partially offset by reduced shipments. Including the currency translation effects, reported average realized prices increased $212 per ton from 2007. The increase in sales for Tubular resulted primarily from higher average realized prices (up $706 per ton) and increased shipments, partially due to the inclusion of the former Lone Star Technologies, Inc. (Lone Star) facilities for the entire year in 2008. Operating Expenses Profit based union payments Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Allocated to segment results $ $ 237 $ 119 Retiree benefit expenses 99 Total $ $ 237 $ 218 Results for the year ended December 31, 2009 did not include any costs for profit based payments to employees represented by the USW because the base threshold of operating income agreed to in the 2008 CBAs was not met. Results for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 include costs related to profit based payments. These costs are included in cost of sales on the statement of operations. Profit based payment amounts per the agreements with the USW are calculated as a percentage of consolidated income from operations (as defined in the agreements) and are paid as profit sharing to active USW represented employees (excluding employees of USSC) based on 7.5 percent of profit between $10 and $50 per ton and 10 percent of profit above $50 per ton. Amounts in 2007 also include costs related to a trust that was to be used to assist retirees from National Steel with health care costs. Pension and other benefits costs Defined benefit and multiemployer pension plan costs totaled $271 million during 2009, $78 million during 2008 and $129 million in 2007. Pension costs during 2009 included $80 million for several voluntary early retirement programs (VERPs) and losses in connection with the sale of a majority of the operating assets of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E). Excluding these losses, the increase in expense from 2008 to 2009 mainly reflected the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Pension costs during 2007 included settlement, termination and curtailment losses of $20 million. Excluding these losses, the decrease in expense from 2007 to 2008 mainly reflected the improved funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan. Costs related to defined contribution plans totaled $25 million during 2009, $35 million during 2008 and $26 million during 2007. Costs in 2009 included $13 million for VERP related benefits under these plans. Other benefits costs, which are included in income from operations, totaled $191 million in 2009, $149 million in 2008 and $136 million in 2007. Other benefits costs in 2009 included $13 million in settlement, termination and 59 Table of Contents curtailment losses. Excluding these losses, the increase in 2009 was primarily due to impacts of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs partially offset by lower costs at USSC as a result of favorable claims experience. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of expenses related to USSC employees for the full year. For additional information on pensions and other benefits, see Note 20 to the Financial Statements. Nonretirement postemployment benefits U. S. Steel incurred costs of and paid approximately $85 million during the year ended December 31, 2009 related to employee costs for supplemental unemployment benefits, salary continuance and continuation of health care benefits and life insurance coverage for employees associated with the temporary idling of certain facilities and reduced production at others. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $618 million in 2009, $625 million in 2008 and $589 million in 2007. Pension and other benefits costs included in selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $164 million in 2009, $47 million in 2008 and $86 million in 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses remained consistent from 2008 to 2009 but were impacted by an increase in pension and OPEB costs offset by a decrease in compensation expense. The increase in 2008 mainly resulted from increased expenses related to our 2007 acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and higher compensation expense, partially offset by lower pension expense. Depreciation, depletion and amortization Depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses were $661 million in 2009, $605 million in 2008 and $506 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily related to the fact that effective January 1, 2009 we eliminated the use of the modified straight line method, which was previously used for certain steel producing assets in the United States. The increase in 2008 was primarily related to the full year impact of assets acquired in the business acquisitions during 2007. The modification factors previously applied to straight line calculations ranged from a minimum of 85 percent at a production level below 81 percent of capability, to a maximum of 105 percent for a 100 percent production level. No modification was made at the 95 percent production level. Applying modification factors decreased depreciation expense, when compared to a straight line calculation, by $58 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 60 Table of Contents (Loss) Income from Operations(a) Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in Millions) 2009 2008 2007 Flat rolled(b) $ (1,438 ) $ 1,390 $ 382 USSE (208 ) 491 687 Tubular 57 1,207 356 Total (loss) income from reportable segments (1,589 ) 3,088 1,425 Other Businesses(b) (2 ) 77 84 Segment (loss) income from operations (1,591 ) 3,165 1,509 Retiree benefit expenses (134 ) (22 ) (143 ) Other items not allocated to segments: Federal excise tax refund 34 Litigation reserve 45 (45 ) Net (loss) gain on the sale of assets 97 Environmental remediation charge (49 ) (23 ) Workforce reduction charges (86 ) (57 ) Deferred gain recognition 150 Labor agreement signing payments (105 ) Asset impairment charge (28 ) Flat rolled inventory transition effects (23 ) (58 ) Tubular inventory transition effects (38 ) Total (loss) income from operations $ (1,684 ) $ 3,069 $ 1,213 (a) See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for reconciliations and other disclosures required by Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280. (b) Certain amounts have been restated versus prior years disclosures. 61 Table of Contents Segment results for Flat rolled (Includes USSC from the date of acquisition on October 31, 2007) The Flat rolled segment generated a loss of $1,438 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $1,390 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted mainly from unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $2,450 million), lower income from reduced steel substrate sales to our Tubular segment (approximately $400 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities (approximately $360 million), facility restart costs (approximately $70 million) and lower income from equity investments (approximately $190 million). These were partially offset by lower raw material and natural gas costs (approximately $370 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $300 million). The increase in Flat rolleds segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 resulted mainly from higher commercial effects (approximately $2,780 million) and increased income from semi finished steel sales to Tubular (approximately $470 million). These were partially offset by higher costs for raw materials (approximately $1,560 million) and energy (approximately $280 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $170 million) and higher accruals for profit based payments (approximately $150 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. 62 Table of Contents Segment results for USSE The USSE segment generated a loss of $208 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $491 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to unfavorable changes in commercial effects (approximately $1,300 million) and reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $135 million) partially offset by lower raw material costs (approximately $620 million), reduced facility repair and maintenance costs (approximately $60 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $50 million). The decrease in USSEs segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily due to higher raw materials and energy costs (approximately $780 million), net unfavorable currency effects (approximately $50 million), reduced operating efficiencies (approximately $40 million) and outage related costs (approximately $30 million), partially offset by higher commercial effects (approximately $740 million). Capability utilization was adversely affected in late 2008 and 2009 as we reduced production levels to correspond with significantly lower customer order rates by temporarily idling certain facilities and cutting back production at others. Capability utilization in 2008 was adversely affected by the reline of the No. 1 blast furnace in Slovakia and by reduced operations late in the year to match declining customer demand. 63 Table of Contents Segment results for Tubular (Includes Lone Star facilities from the date of acquisition on June 14, 2007) The decrease in Tubulars segment income in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to unfavorable commercial effects (approximately $1,080 million), operating inefficiencies related to idled facilities and facilities operating at reduced production levels (approximately $35 million and $60 million, respectively) and write downs of inventory (approximately $35 million). These were partially offset by lower costs of substrate steel purchases from the Flat rolled segment (approximately $40 million) and the absence of accruals for profit based payments (approximately $55 million). The increase in Tubulars segment income in 2008 compared to 2007 mainly resulted from higher commercial effects (approximately $1,580), due in part to the inclusion of results for facilities acquired from Lone Star for the entire year. This was partially offset by increased costs for semi finished steel (approximately $610 million) from Flat rolled and outside sources. Results for Other Businesses Other Businesses generated a loss of $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to income of $77 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease resulted from the impacts of the global recession and the sale of Elgin, Joliet and Eastern Railway Company (EJ&E) in the first quarter of 2009. Results for Other Businesses decreased by $7 million from 2007 to 2008. Items not allocated to segments: Retiree benefit expenses increased significantly from 2008 to 2009 mainly due to the decreased funded status of the main U. S. Steel pension plan and the effects of the benefit enhancements encompassed by the 2008 CBAs. Retiree benefit expenses decreased significantly from 2007 to 2008 mainly due to lower retiree pension expense (See Operating Expenses Pension and other benefits costs) and lower profit based expense related to certain former National Steel employees (See Operating Expenses Profit based union payments). 64 Table of Contents During 2009, U. S. Steel received a federal excise tax refund of $34 million associated with the recovery of black lung excise taxes that were paid on coal export sales from 1990 to 1992. A litigation reserve of $45 million involving a rate escalation provision in a U. S. Steel power supply contract was established in 2008 as a result of a court ruling and was subsequently reversed in 2009 as that decision was overturned. See Part II. Other Information Item 1. Legal Proceedings. We recorded a $97 million pre tax net gain on sale of assets in 2009 as a result of the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. The net gain included a pension curtailment loss of approximately $10 million. We recorded a $49 million environmental remediation charge in 2009 in connection with the definition of an expanded scope of remediation at our former Geneva Works. We recorded a $23 million environmental remediation charge in 2008 as the scope of work became defined for an environmental project at a former operating location. Workforce reduction charges of $86 million in 2009 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a VERP offered in the first quarter of 2009 to certain non represented employees in the United States. Workforce reduction charges of $57 million in 2007 reflected employee severance and net benefit charges related to a voluntary early retirement plan offered to certain employees at USSK. We recognized a noncash deferred gain of $150 million in 2008 in connection with the termination of the Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. See Note 5 to the Financial Statements. The 2008 CBAs provided for labor agreement signing payments of up to $6,000 per employee which resulted in a charge of $105 million in 2008. An asset impairment charge of $28 million in 2008 resulted from our decision to exit the drawn over mandrel (DOM) tubular products business. The charge was taken principally to write down to fair value equipment associated with the DOM business. Inventory transition effects of $23 million in 2008 and $96 million in 2007 reflected the charges for conforming certain inventories acquired from Lone Star to our unified business model, and the impact of selling inventory acquired from Lone Star and Stelco, which had been recorded at fair value. Net Interest and Other Financial Costs Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Interest and other financial costs $ 179 $ 179 $ 162 (a) Interest income (10 ) (14 ) (79 )(a) Foreign currency gains (8 ) (103 ) (4 ) Charge from early extinguishment of debt 26 Net interest and other financial costs $ 161 $ 62 $ 105 (a) The year ended December 31, 2007 includes $27 million of interest expense and offsetting interest income related to the obligation to provide benefits for National Steel retirees that was settled in the fourth quarter of 2007. While the obligation was outstanding, U. S. Steel invested the amount due in short term investments and interest earned on those investments was also payable. The increase in net interest and other financial costs from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to lower foreign currency gains. The decrease in net interest and other financial costs from 2007 to 2008 was mainly due to higher foreign currency gains and the nonrecurrence of the $26 million charge in 2007 related to the early redemption of certain debt, partially offset by increased interest expense resulting from debt incurred to fund the acquisitions of Lone Star and USSC and lower interest income. 65 Table of Contents The foreign currency gains include remeasurement effects on a U.S. dollar denominated intercompany loan (the Intercompany Loan) from a U.S. subsidiary to a European subsidiary related to the 2007 acquisition of USSC that had an outstanding balance of $892 million at December 31, 2009, partially offset by losses on euro U.S. dollar derivatives activity, which we use to mitigate our foreign currency exposure. Volatility in the foreign currency markets could have significant implications for U. S. Steel going forward as a result of the foreign currency accounting remeasurement effects resulting from the Intercompany Loan and foreign currency gains and losses on derivatives activity. For additional information on U. S. Steels foreign currency exchange activity see Note 15 to the Financial Statements and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk. Income Taxes The income tax benefit in 2009 was $439 million, compared to provisions of $853 million in 2008 and $218 million in 2007. The tax benefit in 2009 is primarily related to the net loss for the period. The effective tax benefit rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 is lower than the statutory rate because losses in Canada and Serbia, which are jurisdictions where we have recorded a full valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, do not generate a tax benefit for accounting purposes. The increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 primarily reflected higher income and a higher effective tax rate as a result of a lower percentage of pre tax earnings generated by our European operations. The net domestic deferred tax asset was $731 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $802 million at December 31, 2008. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset from 2009 to 2008 was primarily a result of the remeasurement of the pension and other benefits plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements). At December 31, 2009, the foreign deferred tax assets recorded were $103 million, net of established valuation allowances of $575 million. Net foreign deferred tax assets will fluctuate as the value of the U.S. dollar changes with respect to the euro, the Canadian dollar and the Serbian dinar. A full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian deferred tax assets due to the absence of positive evidence at USSC to support the realizability of the assets. A full valuation allowance is provided for Serbian deferred tax assets because current projected investment tax credits, which must be used before net operating losses and credit carryforwards, are more than sufficient to offset future tax liabilities. As USSC and USSS generate sufficient income, the valuation allowance of $514 million for Canadian deferred tax assets and $46 million for Serbian deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009, would be partially or fully reversed at such time that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. For further information on income taxes see Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Net income Net loss in 2009 was $1,401 million compared to income of $2,112 million in 2008 and $879 million in 2007. The changes primarily reflected the factors discussed above. Financial Condition, Cash Flows and Liquidity Financial Condition Current assets at year end 2009 decreased by $717 million from year end 2008 primarily due to lower inventories and lower receivables partially offset by higher cash balances (see Cash Flows). The decrease in inventories primarily resulted from lower quantities of higher cost raw materials. Raw material inventory quantities decreased as U. S. Steel maintained lower operating rates throughout 2009 and reduced raw material purchases as a cash conservation measure. Receivables decreased mainly due to lower sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008, due primarily to lower average realized prices. These decreases were partially offset by the recognition of an income tax receivable representing a portion of the federal income tax refund that we expect to receive in 2010 as a result of carrying back our expected 2009 losses to prior years. Goodwill of $1,725 million increased by $116 million from year end 2008 mainly as goodwill attributable to the acqusition of Stelco were reported at higher amounts due to foreign currency translation effects. 66 Table of Contents Assets held for sale at December 31, 2009 consist of certain assets at Hamilton Works, primarily property, plant and equipment, and decreased from December 31, 2008 as a result of the sale of the majority of the operating assets of EJ&E. Total deferred income tax benefits at year end 2009 remained consistent with the balance at year end 2008. Deferred income tax benefits were primarily impacted by an increase in foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards offset by an increase in the valuation allowance, since a full valuation allowance is recorded for Canadian and Serbian deferred tax assets, and a decrease in the deferred income tax benefit related to employee benefits. See Note 10 to the Financial Statements. Current liabilities at year end 2009 decreased by $304 million from year end 2009 due mainly to lower payroll and benefits payable resulting from the absence of accruals for profit based payments and lower accrued taxes resulting from reduced net income in 2009 compared to 2008. Several balance sheet accounts changed as a result of an improvement in the net funded status of our pension and other employee benefits plans. Employee benefits decreased by $624 million and the accumulated other comprehensive loss decreased by $541 billion. See Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The decrease in the accumulated other comprehensive loss was also due to foreign currency translation effects as a result of the weakening U.S. dollar versus the Euro and the Canadian dollar. The increase in long term debt from December 31, 2008 was mainly due to our public offering in May 2009 of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014, partially offset by the repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. See Liquidity. Common stock and Additional paid in capital increased by $27 million and $666 million, respectively, compared to year end 2008 primarily as a result of our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May 2009. See Liquidity. Cash Flows Net cash used in operating activities was $61 million in 2009 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1,658 million in 2008 and $1,732 million in 2007. This change was primarily related to a net loss of approximately $696 million after adjustments for noncash items in 2009 compared to income of approximately $2.6 billion after adjustments for noncash items in 2008. The favorable working capital change in 2009 of approximately $1.3 billion mainly reflected lower inventory and receivables levels, partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Higher income after adjustments for noncash items in 2008 compared to 2007 was more than offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency translation effects due mainly to the strengthening of the U. S. dollar and unfavorable working capital effects (excluding the 2007 acquisitions). The unfavorable working capital change in 2008 mainly reflected higher inventory levels and the repurchase of receivables, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities for 2009 was increased and net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 and 2007 was reduced by employee benefits payments as shown in the following table. 67 Table of Contents Employee Benefits Payments Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Voluntary contributions to main defined benefit pension plan $ 140 $ 140 $ 140 Required contributions to other defined benefit pension plans 79 73 23 Other employee benefits payments not funded by trusts 285 236 213 Contributions to trusts for retiree health care and life insurance(a) 12 228 498 Payments to a multiemployer pension plan 58 33 30 Payments to pension plans not funded by trusts 84 29 17 Reductions in cash flows from operating activities $ 658 $ 739 $ 921 (a) Includes $143 million in 2008 and $468 million in 2007 for a company contribution to U. S. Steels trust for retiree health care and life insurance fulfilling the Companys obligation under an agreement with the USW regarding benefits for certain former National Steel employees. U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized additional voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and healthcare by the end of 2011. Capital expenditures variable interest entities was $147 million in 2009 and $161 million in 2008. This primarily reflects spending by Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC (Gateway) for a non recovery coke plant to supply Granite City Works. This spending is consolidated in our financial results but is funded by Gateway and, therefore, is completely offset by amounts included in distributions from noncontrolling interests, which is included in cash flow from financing activities. 68 Table of Contents Capital expenditures for 2009 of $472 million consisted largely of non discretionary environmental and other infrastructure projects. Only limited progress was made in 2009 on certain projects of long term strategic importance, as we substantially reduced our capital spending from the original plan of $740 million to conserve liquidity. This compares to capital expenditures of $735 million for 2008 and $692 million for 2007. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $338 million in 2009included spending development of an enterprise resourceplanning (ERP) system, non discretionary environmentalprojects, maintenance on the No. 14 blast furnace at GaryWorks and cokemaking projects at Granite City Works andthe Clairton Plant, including the construction of acogeneration facility at Granite City Works. USSEexpenditures of $113 million included spending at USSK forthe maintenance of the No.3 blast furnace, a coke oven gasdesulphurization project and spending for development of theERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $465 million in 2008 included spending for modernization of our cokemaking facilities, including expenditures for construction of a cogeneration facility at Granite City Works, development of an ERP system and replacement of open pit mining equipment at our iron ore operations USSE expenditures of $210 million included spending at USSK for the reline of the No.1 blast furnace, for replacement of electrical power transformers and to upgrade a continuous caster, and spending for development of the ERP system. Flat rolled capital expenditures of $418 million in 2007 included spending for development of an ERP system, blast furnace stove replacements at Granite City Works and Great Lakes Works, coke oven thru wall repairs primarily at our Clairton Plant and open pit mining equipment and an environmental project at our iron ore operations. USSE expenditures of $215 million included spending at USSK for an air emission reduction project and a new automotive quality galvanizing line, spending at USSS for the reline of the No. 2 blast furnace, and spending for development of an ERP system. Construction of the new galvanizing line was completed in February 2007. 69 Table of Contents U. S. Steels contract commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2009, totaled $152 million. Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to total approximately $530 million and remain focused largely on environmental and other infrastructure projects. We continue to evaluate investments of long term strategic importance, including projects to invest in production of coke and coke substitutes, given that some of our existing coke batteries are approaching the end of their useful lives, to reduce coke requirements in Serbia through blast furnace coal injection, to enhance our Tubular operations in order to more efficiently serve customers increased focus on shale natural gas resources and to allow us to increase our participation in the automotive market as vehicle emission and safety requirements become more stringent. In light of the significant capital commitment that such projects would entail over the next several years, we may seek to secure some long term funding for such projects and general corporate purposes prior to committing to such projects. The preceding statement concerning expected 2010 capital expenditures is a forward looking statement. This forward looking statement is based on assumptions, which can be affected by (among other things) levels of cash flow from operations, general economic conditions, business conditions, availability of capital, ability to secure long term funding, whether or not assets are purchased or financed by operating leases, receipt of necessary permits and unforeseen hazards such as contractor performance, material shortages, weather conditions, explosions or fires, which could delay the timing of completion of particular capital projects. Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from current expectations in the forward looking statement. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Z Line Company reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of noncontrolling interests of Clairton 1314B Partnership, L.P. reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of pickle lines reflected the amount paid at closing. Acquisition of Lone Star Technologies, Inc. reflected $2,050 million paid at closing, net of cash acquired of $71 million; plus $14 million of transaction costs to acquire all of the outstanding shares. Acquisition of Stelco Inc. reflected $1,237 million paid to acquire all of the outstanding stock and stock equivalents, $785 million paid to retire substantially all of the outstanding debt and $34 million paid to Stelcos main pension plans, net of cash acquired of $32 million; plus $13 million of transaction costs. Disposal of assets in 2009 reflected pre tax cash proceeds of approximately $300 million from the sale of a majority of the operating assets of EJ&E and $36 million from the sale of emissions allowances at U. S. Steel Koice (USSK). Restricted cash in 2009 primarily reflected collateral required on previously unsecured obligations. Borrowings against revolving credit facilities in 2008 primarily reflected amounts drawn against a USSK 200 million three year revolving credit facility, the proceeds of which were used to reduce the Intercompany Loan (see Liquidity), as well as borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Repayments of revolving credit facilities in 2008 reflected repayment of borrowings against USSKs 40 million credit facility. Common stock issued in 2009 resulted from our public offering of 27 million common shares that was completed in May. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2009 resulted primarily from our public offering in May of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014. Also in 2009, we issued $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds (ERBs), maturing from 2017 to 2030. See Liquidity. Issuance of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the issuance of $300 million principal amount of 5.65% Senior Notes due 2013, $450 million principal amount of 70 Table of Contents 6.05% Senior Notes due 2017, $350 million principal amount of 6.65% Senior Notes due 2037 and $500 million principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018; and our entrance into two $500 million term loans and a $400 million term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2009 primarily reflected repayment of $655 million outstanding under our three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. Also in 2009, we completed the refunding of $129 million of Environmental Revenue Bonds. See Liquidity. Repayment of long term debt in 2008 primarily reflected payments on our term loans, including the early retirement of $300 million of our three year term loan. Repayment of long term debt in 2007 mainly reflected the early redemption of $378 million of 9 3/4% Senior Notes due 2010, the early redemption of $49 million of 10% Senior Quarterly Income Debt Securities due 2031 and the repayment of a $400 million term loan. Common stock repurchased in 2008 and 2007 totaled 2.0 million shares and 1.2 million shares, respectively. Our share repurchase program was originally authorized in July 2005. In 2006, our Board of Directors replenished the common stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to eight million shares of U. S. Steel common stock from time to time in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2009, 4.4 million shares remained authorized for repurchase. In late 2008, we suspended repurchases under this program as part of our reaction to the difficult global economic environment. Dividends paid (In Dollars) Dividends Paid per Share U. S. Steel Common Stock 4th Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 1st Qtr. 2009 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.05 $ 0.30 2008 $ 0.30 $ 0.30 $ 0.25 $ 0.25 2007 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 Liquidity The following table summarizes U. S. Steels liquidity as of December 31, 2009: (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,218 Amount available under $750 Million Credit Facility(b) 638 Amount available under Receivables Purchase Agreement 500 Amounts available under USSK credit facilities 93 Amounts available under USSS credit facilities 55 Total estimated liquidity $ 2,504 (b) As of December 31, 2009, there were no amounts drawn on the Amended Credit Agreement and inventory levels supported the full $750 million of the facility. Since availability was greater than $112.5 million, compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio was not applicable. However, based on the most recent four quarters, as of December 31, 2009, we would not meet the fixed charge coverage ratio if we were to borrow more than $637.5 million. Therefore, we reduced the availability reflected by $112.5 million. 71 Table of Contents (a) Excludes $20 million, $20 million and $27 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, of cash primarily related to the Clairton 1314B Partnership (Partnership) because it was not available for U. S. Steels use. On October 31, 2008, we acquired the equity interests in the Partnership that we did not wholly own. Excludes $1 million of cash at December 31, 2008 related to our variable interest entities. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into an amendment and restatement of its $750 million Credit Agreement dated May 11, 2007 (Amended Credit Agreement) with a group of lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (Agent). U. S. Steel simultaneously entered into a security agreement with the Agent (Security Agreement) providing for a security interest in the majority of its domestic inventory. The Amended Credit Agreement established a borrowing base formula, which limits the amounts U. S. Steel can borrow to a certain percent of the value of certain domestic inventory less specified reserves, and eliminates the previous financial covenants that consisted of interest and leverage coverage ratios. The Amended Credit Agreement contains a new financial covenant requiring U. S. Steel to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (defined as consolidated EBITDA less certain capital expenditures and cash income tax expense to certain fixed charges) of at least 1.10 to 1.00 for the most recent four consecutive quarters when availability under the Amended Credit Agreement is less than the greater of 15 percent of the total aggregate commitments and $112.5 million. The Amended Credit Agreement includes revised pricing and other customary terms and conditions, and will expire on May 11, 2012. For further information regarding the Amended Credit Agreement and Security Agreement, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. U. S. Steel has a Receivables Purchase Agreement (RPA) that provides up to $500 million of liquidity and letters of credit depending upon the number of eligible domestic receivables generated by U. S. Steel. The commitments under the RPA expire in September 2010. Domestic trade accounts receivables are sold, on a daily basis, without recourse, to U. S. Steel Receivables LLC (USSR), a consolidated wholly owned special purpose entity. If U. S. Steel decides to access this facility, USSR then sells an undivided interest in these receivables to certain conduits. The conduits issue commercial paper to finance the purchase of their interest in the receivables and if any of them are unable to fund such purchases, two banks are committed to do so. U. S. Steel has agreed to continue servicing the sold receivables at market rates. Because U. S. Steel receives adequate compensation for these services, no servicing asset or liability has been recorded. On June 12, 2009, U. S. Steel entered into agreements which amended the RPA. These agreements increase certain reserve factors and percentages, provide for a termination event if there is a change of control of U. S. Steel, amend the definition of Eligible Receivables, change certain performance triggers and make conforming and clarifying changes. 72 Table of Contents The RPA may be terminated on the occurrence and failure to cure certain events, including, among others, failure by U. S. Steel to make payments under our material debt obligations and any failure to maintain certain ratios related to the collectability of the receivables. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel had $500 million of eligible receivables, none of which were sold. For further information regarding the agreements, see U. S. Steels Current Report on Form 8 K filed on June 16, 2009. On May 4, 2009, U. S. Steel completed a public offering of $863 million principal amount of Senior Convertible Notes due 2014 and 27,140,000 shares of its Common Stock. U. S. Steel received net proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion and used $655 million to repay all amounts outstanding under its three year term loan due October 2010 and five year term loan due May 2012. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Convertible Notes was $863 million. On December 11, 2009, USSK entered into a 10 million (approximately $14 million at December 31, 2009) unsecured revolving credit facility as the sole obligor. The facility expires January 2011. The facility bears interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contains other customary terms and conditions. USSK is obligated to pay a commitment fee on the undrawn portion of the facility. At December 31, 2009, USSK had no borrowings against its 40 million, 20 million and 10 million unsecured credit facilities (which approximated $101 million) but had $8 million of customs and other guarantees outstanding, reducing availability to $93 million. At December 31, 2009, USSK had 200 million (approximately $288 million) fully drawn against a 200 million unsecured credit facility. USSK is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The 10 million facility expires January 2011, the 200 million facility expires July 2011, the 40 million facility expires October 2012 and the 20 million facility expires December 2012. During 2009, USSS amended its secured credit facility agreements to limit availability to the value of USSS inventory of finished and semi finished goods. These facilities include an 800 million Serbian dinar overdraft facility and a 40 million revolving credit facility (together approximately $69 million). USSS is the sole obligor on these facilities and they bear interest at the applicable inter bank offer rate plus a margin and contain other customary terms and conditions. The facilities expire August 2010. At December 31, 2009, there were no borrowings against these facilities and availability was 39 million (approximately $55 million). On May 21, 2007, U. S. Steel issued a total of $1.1 billion of senior notes consisting of $350 million at 6.65 percent due 2037, $450 million at 6.05 percent due 2017, and $300 million at 5.65 percent due 2013, (collectively, the Senior Notes). The Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. At December 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Senior Notes was $1.1 billion. On December 10, 2007, U. S. Steel issued $500 million of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2018 (the 2018 Senior Notes). The 2018 Senior Notes contain covenants restricting our ability to create liens and engage in sale leasebacks and requiring the purchase of the 2018 Senior Notes upon a change of control under specified circumstances, as well as other customary provisions. As of December 31, 2009, the principal amount outstanding under the 2018 Senior Notes was $500 million. We use surety bonds, trusts and letters of credit to provide financial assurance for certain transactions and business activities. The use of some forms of financial assurance and collateral have a negative impact on liquidity. U. S. Steel has committed $150 million of liquidity sources for financial assurance purposes as of December 31, 2009. Increases in these commitments which use collateral are reflected in restricted cash on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 73 Table of Contents At December 31, 2009, in the event of a change in control of U. S. Steel, debt obligations totaling $2,462 million, which includes the Senior Notes and the Senior Convertible Notes, may be declared immediately due and payable. In such event, U. S. Steel may also be required to either repurchase the leased Fairfield slab caster for $45 million or provide a letter of credit to secure the remaining obligation. In the event of a bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation, obligations of $354 million relating to Environmental Revenue Bonds and two capital leases, as well as $26 million relating to an operating lease, may be declared immediately due and payable. The guarantees of the indebtedness of unconsolidated entities of U. S. Steel totaled $11 million at December 31, 2009. In the event that any default related to the guaranteed indebtedness occurs, U. S. Steel has access to its interest in the assets of the investee to reduce its potential losses under the guarantee. U. S. Steel made voluntary contributions of $140 million to the main domestic defined benefit pension plan in both 2009 and 2008. U. S. Steel may also make voluntary contributions of similar amounts in 2010 or later periods in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory contributions in later years. The contributions actually required will be greatly influenced by the level of voluntary contributions, the performance of pension fund assets in the financial markets, the elective use or disavowal of existing credit balances in future periods and various other economic factors and actuarial assumptions that may come to influence the level of the funded position in future years. The 2008 Collective Bargaining Agreements (see Note 17) require U. S. Steel to make annual $75 million contributions during the contract period to a restricted account within our trust for retiree health care and life insurance. This contribution is in addition to an annual $10 million required contribution to the same trust that continues from an earlier agreement. Under this earlier agreement, a $20 million contribution is required if the Company does not contribute at least $75 million to its main pension plan in the prior year. During 2008, the Company made $85 million in contributions to the trust under these agreements, as well as a $143 million contribution to cover some of the health and life benefits for certain retirees of National Steel Corporation. During the first quarter of 2009, the Company made a $10 million contribution to this trust. In April 2009, we reached agreement with the USW to defer the annual $75 million mandatory contributions due in 2009 and the $10 million contribution due in January 2010. Further, the USW has agreed to permit us to use all or part of the $75 million contribution made in 2008 to pay current retiree health care and life insurance claims, subject to a make up contribution in 2013. Through December 31, 2009, none of the 2008 contribution funds have been used by the Company. In conjunction with the acquisition of Stelco, now USSC (see Note 4), U. S. Steel assumed the pension plan funding agreement (the Pension Agreement) that Stelco had entered into with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Province) on March 31, 2006 that covers USSCs four main pension plans. The Pension Agreement requires minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and additional annual contributions for benefit improvements, which currently are limited to the union retiree indexing provisions. The defined annual contributions will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015, when minimum funding requirements for the plans resume under the provincial pension legislation. In its acquisition of Stelco on October 31, 2007, U. S. Steel assumed liability for a note issued to the Province of Ontario (Province Note) (see Note 4 to the Financial Statements). The face amount of the Province Note is C$150 million (approximately $142 million at December 31, 2009) and is payable on December 31, 2015. The Province Note is unsecured and is subject to a 75 percent discount if the solvency deficiencies in the four main USSC pension plans (see Note 20 to the Financial Statements) are eliminated on or before the maturity date. 74 Table of Contents The following table summarizes U. S. Steels contractual obligations at December 31, 2009, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Long term debt (including interest) and capital leases(a) $ 4,954 $ 202 $ 943 $ 1,414 $ 2,395 Operating leases(b) $ 173 40 59 34 40 Unconditional purchase obligations(c) $ 11,540 4,442 2,627 1,305 3,166 Capital commitments(d) $ 152 114 38 Environmental commitments(d) $ 203 17 186 (e) Steelworkers Pension Trust $ 286 (f) 54 113 119 (f) (f) Pensions(g) $ 451 83 153 145 70 Other benefits(h) $ 1,940 (i) 415 880 645 (i) Unrecognized tax positions $ 106 106 (e) Total contractual obligations $ 19,805 $ 5,367 $ 4,813 $ 3,662 $ 5,963 (a) See Note 16 to the Financial Statements. (b) See Note 27 to the Financial Statements. Amounts exclude subleases. (c) Reflects contractual purchase commitments under purchase orders and take or pay arrangements. Take or pay arrangements are primarily for purchases of gases and certain energy and utility services. Additionally, includes coke and steam purchase commitments related to a coke supply agreement with Gateway Energy & Coke Company LLC (See Note 18). (d) See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (e) Timing of potential cash flows is not reasonably determinable. (f) While It is difficult to make a prediction of cash requirements beyond the term of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, which expire in 2012, projected amounts shown through 2014 assume that the current $2.65 contribution rate per hour will apply. (g) Amounts shown represent projected cash requirements for USSC pension plans, most of which relates to a funding scheme for USSCs four main plans, whereby under an agreement with the Superintendent of Financial Services of Ontario (the Pension Agreement), USSC is responsible for minimum contributions of C$65 million (approximately $62 million) per year (C$70 million (approximately $66 million) effective 2011 and later) and smaller annual contributions for benefit improvements related to prior cost of living adjustments. The Pension Agreement will be continued until the earlier of full solvency funding for the four main plans or until December 31, 2015 when minimum funding requirements under the Pension Benefits Act will resume. U.S. dollar equivalents of contributions are based on foreign exchange rates as of December 31, 2009 and shown projected through 2015. (h) Excludes profit based payments that may be required through September 1, 2012, pursuant to the provisions of the 2008 collective bargaining agreements with the USW, as it is not possible to make an accurate prediction of payments that may be required. (i) U. S. Steel accrues an annual cost for retiree medical and retiree life benefit obligations which require the use of corporate cash in future years to the extent that trust assets are restricted or insufficient and to the extent that company contributions are required by law or union labor agreement. Amounts in the years 2010 through 2014 reflect our current estimate of corporate cash outflows and include mandatory contributions to the USW VEBA trust of $75 million in 2010 and $85 million in both 2011 and 2012. Projected amounts do not reflect optional drawdowns from the USW VEBA trust if U. S. Steel decides to utilize certain options available under its agreements with the USW. Amounts to be used from the VEBA trust will be determined in 2010 and later years. The accuracy of this forecast of future cash flows depends on various factors such as actual asset returns, the asset trust mix, medical escalation rates and company decisions or restrictions related to our trusts for retiree healthcare and life insurance that impact the timing of the use of trust assets. Due to these factors, amounts shown above could differ significantly from what is actually expended and, at this time, it is impossible to make a reliable prediction of cash requirements beyond five years. Contingent lease payments have been excluded from the above table. Contingent lease payments relate to operating lease agreements that include a floating rental charge, which is associated to a variable component. Future contingent lease payments are not determinable to any degree of certainty. U. S. Steels annual incurred contingent lease expense is disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. Additionally, recorded liabilities related to deferred income taxes and other liabilities that may have an impact on liquidity and cash flow in future periods are excluded from the above table. 75 Table of Contents Pension obligations have been excluded from the above table except for the contributions required for USSCs defined benefit pension plans. (See footnote (g) of the above table). U. S. Steels Board of Directors has authorized voluntary contributions of up to $300 million to U. S. Steels trusts for pensions and other benefits during 2010 and 2011. U. S. Steel may make voluntary contributions in 2010 or later periods to the main defined benefit pension plan in the United States in order to mitigate against potentially larger mandatory required contributions in later years. In addition to the USSC amounts included in the above table, U. S. Steel expects to make cash payments of $15 million to other pension plans not funded by trusts. The funded status of U. S. Steels pension plans is disclosed in Note 20 to the Financial Statements. The following table summarizes U. S. Steels commercial commitments at December 31, 2009, and the effect such commitments could have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. (Dollars in millions) Scheduled Reductions by Period Commercial Commitments Total 2010 2011through2012 2013through2014 Beyond2014 Standby letters of credit(a) $ 122 $ 109 $ $ $ 13 (c) Surety bonds(a) 18 18 (c) Funded Trusts(a) 33 33 (c) Marathon Oil Corporation(a)(b) 26 26 Total commercial commitments $ 199 $ 109 $ 26 $ $ 64 (a) Reflects a commitment or guarantee for which future cash outflow is not considered likely. (b) Reflects the amount of U. S. Steels operating lease obligations that may be declared immediately due and payable in the event of the bankruptcy of Marathon Oil Corporation. See Note 28 to the Financial Statements. (c) Timing of potential cash outflows is not determinable. Our major cash requirements in 2010 are expected to be for capital expenditures, employee benefits and working capital requirements. We finished 2009 with $1.2 billion of available cash. As business conditions recover, our working capital requirements will likely increase and we may need to draw upon our credit facilities for necessary cash. Funding under the RPA and the Amended Credit Agreement is based on a pool of eligible domestic receivables and domestic inventory, respectively, both of which have declined as a result of lower orders and our efforts to reduce working capital. A sudden increase in orders could require a significant amount of investment in working capital. Should we experience a significant increase in orders or an unexpected need for funds that cannot be met with available cash and our liquidity facilities, we may need to access the capital markets. U. S. Steel management believes that U. S. Steels liquidity will be adequate to satisfy our obligations for the foreseeable future, including obligations to complete currently authorized capital spending programs. Future requirements for U. S. Steels business needs, including the funding of acquisitions and capital expenditures, scheduled debt maturities, contributions to employee benefit plans, and any amounts that may ultimately be paid in connection with contingencies, are expected to be financed by a combination of internally generated funds (including asset sales), proceeds from the sale of stock, borrowings, refinancings and other external financing sources. Our opinion regarding liquidity is a forward looking statement based upon currently available information. To the extent that operating cash flow is materially lower than recent levels or external financing sources are not available on terms competitive with those currently available, future liquidity may be adversely affected. Debt and Senior Convertible Notes Ratings The ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt by Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) and Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) are BB and Ba3, respectively. On January 27, 2010, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) lowered its ratings assigned to our senior unsecured debt from BBB to BB+ and revised its outlook to stable. Any further downgrades could reduce our access to the capital markets and increase our financing costs. 76 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements U. S. Steel has invested in several joint ventures that are reported as equity investments. Several of these investments involved a transfer of assets in exchange for an equity interest. In some cases, U. S. Steel has supply arrangements. In some cases, a portion of the labor force used by the investees is provided by U. S. Steel, the cost of which is reimbursed; however, failing reimbursement, U. S. Steel is ultimately responsible for the cost of these employees. The terms of U. S. Steels purchase and supply arrangements were a result of negotiations in arms length transactions with the other joint venture participants, who are not affiliates of U. S. Steel. In September 2003, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for the supply of various utilities at the Midwest Plant in Indiana. The supplier owns a cogeneration facility consisting of two natural gas fired boilers that generate steam and hot water, a natural gas fired turbine generator and a steam turbine generator for production of electricity on land leased from U. S. Steel. The Midwest Plants employees perform the daily operating and maintenance duties and the Midwest Plant supplies natural gas to fuel the boilers and the turbine generator. U. S. Steel is obligated to purchase steam, hot water and electricity requirements (up to the facilitys capacity) at fixed prices throughout the term and pay annual capacity and operating and maintenance fees. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. In April 2004, U. S. Steel entered into a 10 year agreement for coal pulverization services at the Great Lakes facility, which was effective January 1, 2004. During the initial 5 year period, U. S. Steel was obligated to purchase minimum monthly pulverization services at fixed prices that were annually adjusted for inflation. During the second 5 year period, U. S. Steel has the right to purchase pulverization services on a requirements basis, subject to the capacity of the pulverized coal operations, at fixed prices that are annually adjusted for inflation. U. S. Steel has no ownership interest in this facility. Other guarantees, indemnifications and take or pay arrangements are discussed in Notes 18 and 28 to the Financial Statements. Derivative Instruments See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for discussion of derivative instruments and associated market risk for U. S. Steel. Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies U. S. Steel has incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations. In recent years, these expenditures have been mainly for process changes in order to meet Clean Air Act obligations and similar obligations in Europe and Canada, although ongoing compliance costs have also been significant. To the extent that these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, operating results will be reduced. U. S. Steel believes that our major North American, and many European, integrated steel competitors are confronted by substantially similar conditions and thus does not believe that our relative position with regard to such competitors is materially affected by the impact of environmental laws and regulations. However, the costs and operating restrictions necessary for compliance with environmental laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our competitive position with regard to domestic mini mills, some foreign steel producers (particularly in developing economies such as China) and producers of materials which compete with steel, all of which may not be required to incur equivalent costs in their operations. In addition, the specific impact on each competitor may vary depending on a number of factors, including the age and location of its operating facilities and its production methods. U. S. Steel is also responsible for remediation costs related to our prior disposal of environmentally sensitive materials. Many of our competitors do not have similar historical liabilities. Our U. S. facilities are subject to the U.S. environmental standards, including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. 77 Table of Contents USSC is subject to the environmental laws of Canada, which are comparable to environmental standards in the United States. Environmental regulation in Canada is an area of shared responsibility between the federal government and the provincial governments, which in turn delegate certain matters to municipal governments. Federal environmental statutes include the federal Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 and the Fisheries Act. Various provincial statutes regulate environmental matters such as the release and remediation of hazardous substances; waste storage, treatment and disposal; and air emissions. As in the United States, Canadian environmental laws (federal, provincial and local) are undergoing revision and becoming more stringent. The Canadian and Ontario governments have identified a sediment deposit in Hamilton Harbor near USSCs Hamilton Works for remediation, which the regulatory agencies estimated several years ago will require expenditures of approximately C$90 million (approximately $85 million). The national and provincial governments have each allocated C$30 million (approximately $28 million) for this project and they have stated that they will be looking for local sources, including industry, to fund the remaining one third. USSC has committed C$7 million (approximately $7 million) as its contribution. Additional contributions may be sought. USSK is subject to the environmental laws of Slovakia and the European Union (EU). A related law of the EU commonly known as REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, Regulation 1907/2006) requires the registration of certain substances that are produced in the EU or imported into the EU. USSK pre registered various substances during the six month pre registration period that ended November 30, 2008, both on its own behalf and on behalf of U. S. Steel and certain of its subsidiaries that may be shipping products into the EU. USSK is compliant with REACH and intends to register its substances by the applicable deadlines to remain in compliance and be able to continue its businesses without material change. USSS is subject to the environmental laws of Serbia. Under the terms of the acquisition in 2003, USSS is responsible for only those costs and liabilities associated with environmental events occurring subsequent to the completion of an environmental baseline study in June 2004, which was submitted to the Government of Serbia. During 2008 and 2009, USSS spent approximately $50 million to reduce air particulate emissions and undertake other environmental projects pursuant to an agreement with the Serbian government. Many nations, including all where we operate, have or are considering the regulation of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Regulation of CO2 emissions is relevant to the steel industry and U. S. Steel. The integrated steel process involves a series of chemical reactions involving carbon that create CO2 emissions. This distinguishes integrated steel producers from mini mills and many other industries where CO2 generation is generally linked to energy usage. The EU has established greenhouse gas regulations; Canada has published details of a regulatory framework for greenhouse gas emissions; and the United States House of Representatives has passed a bill, a bill has been introduced to the Senate and the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has classified CO2 as a harmful gas. Such regulations may entail substantial capital expenditures, restrict production, and raise the price of coal and other carbon based energy sources. U. S. Steels environmental expenditures: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 North America: Capital $ 28 $ 44 $ 21 Compliance Operating & maintenance 294 409 278 Remediation(a) 19 27 28 Total North America $ 341 $ 480 $ 327 USSE: Capital $ 67 $ 55 $ 51 Compliance Operating & maintenance 16 17 18 Remediation(a) 7 18 7 Total USSE $ 90 $ 90 $ 76 Total U. S. Steel $ 431 $ 570 $ 403 (a) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, net of recoveries where permissible, but do not include non cash provisions recorded for environmental remediation. 78 Table of Contents U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures accounted for 20 percent of total capital expenditures in 2009, 11 percent in 2008 and 10 percent in 2007. Environmental compliance expenditures represented three percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2009 and two percent of U. S. Steels total costs and expenses in 2008 and 2007. Remediation spending during 2007 through 2009 was mainly related to remediation activities at former and present operating locations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting current waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of storage tanks. U. S. Steel is in the study phase of RCRA corrective action programs at our Fairless Plant and Lorain Tubular Operations. RCRA corrective action programs have been initiated at Gary Works, Fairfield Works and USS POSCO Industries. Until the studies are completed at these facilities, U. S. Steel is unable to estimate the total cost of remediation activities that will be required. For discussion of other relevant environmental items see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Environmental Proceedings. The following table shows activity with respect to environmental remediation liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. These amounts exclude liabilities related to asset retirement obligations accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 410. Environmental Remediation Liabilities (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Beginning Balance $ 162 $ 142 Plus: Additions 57 37 Less: Payments (16 ) (17 ) Ending Balance $ 203 $ 162 New or expanded environmental requirements, which could increase U. S. Steels environmental costs, may arise in the future. U. S. Steel intends to comply with all legal requirements regarding the environment, but since many of them are not fixed or presently determinable (even under existing legislation) and may be affected by future legislation, it is not possible to predict accurately the ultimate cost of compliance, including remediation costs which may be incurred and penalties which may be imposed. However, based on presently available information and existing laws and regulations as currently implemented, U. S. Steel does not anticipate that environmental compliance expenditures (including operating and maintenance and remediation) will materially increase in 2010. U. S. Steels environmental capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $168 million in 2010, $89 million of which is related to projects at USSE. Predictions beyond 2010 can only be broad based estimates, which have varied, and will continue to vary, due to the ongoing evolution of specific regulatory requirements, the possible imposition of more stringent requirements and the availability of new technologies to remediate sites, among other matters. Based upon currently identified projects, U. S. Steel anticipates that environmental capital expenditures will be approximately $137 million in 2011, including $26 million for USSE; however, actual expenditures may vary as the number and scope of environmental projects are revised as a result of improved technology or changes in regulatory requirements and could increase if additional projects are identified or additional requirements are imposed. On July 17, 2009, the Attorney General of Canada initiated a proceeding under Section 40 of Canadas Investment Canada Act by filing an application in the Canadian federal court that seeks to impose a financial penalty on U. S. Steel due to the Companys alleged failure to comply with two of the 31 undertakings made by U. S. Steel to the Minister of Industry in connection with the 2007 acquisition of Stelco. The specific undertakings at issue concern production and employment levels anticipated at USSC assuming certain business conditions. In response to a previous written demand from the Minister with respect to this matter, the Company provided full disclosure regarding the operations at USSC and the impact that the sudden and severe world wide economic 79 Table of Contents downturn has had on the global steel sector and all of the Companys North American operations, including operations at USSC. In accordance with the specific language of the undertakings at issue, the unprecedented economic downturn, the effects of which were beyond the control of the Company, expressly excuse any non attainment of the production and employment levels targeted by the 2007 submission. The Company is vigorously defending the matter and believes that the action is without justification or authority. As of December 31, 2009, U. S. Steel was a defendant in approximately 440 active asbestoscases involving approximately 3,040 plaintiffs. Almost 2,560, or approximately 84 percent, of these claims are currently pending in jurisdictions which permit filings with massive numbers of plaintiffs. Based upon U. S. Steels experience in such cases, it believes that the actual number of plaintiffs who ultimately assert claims against U. S. Steel will likely be a small fraction of the total number of plaintiffs. It is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings due to the unpredictable nature of personal injury litigation. Despite this uncertainty, and although U. S. Steels results of operations and cash flows for a given period could be adversely affected by asbestos related lawsuits, claims and proceedings, management believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on U. S. Steels financial condition. For additional details concerning asbestos litigation see Item 3. Legal Proceedings Asbestos Litigation. In a series of lawsuits filed in federal court in the Northern District of Illinois beginning September 12, 2008, individual direct or indirect buyers of steel products have asserted that eight steel manufacturers, including U. S. Steel, conspired in violation of antitrust laws to restrict the domestic production of raw steel and thereby to fix, raise, maintain or stabilize the price of steel products in the United States. The cases are filed as class actions and claim treble damages for the period 2005 to present, but do not allege any damage amounts. U. S. Steel will vigorously defend these lawsuits and does not believe that it has any liability regarding these matters. U. S. Steel is the subject of, or a party to, a number of pending or threatened legal actions, contingencies and commitments involving a variety of matters, including laws and regulations relating to the environment, certain of which are discussed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies could, individually or in the aggregate, be material to the U. S. Steel Financial Statements. However, management believes that U. S. Steel will remain a viable and competitive enterprise even though it is possible that these contingencies could be resolved unfavorably to U. S. Steel. The foregoing statements of belief are forward looking statements. Predictions as to the outcome of pending litigation are subject to substantial uncertainties with respect to (among other things) factual and judicial determinations, and actual results could differ materially from those expressed in these forward looking statements. Outlook for First Quarter 2010 We expect to report an overall operating loss in first quarter 2010 as gradually improving business conditions begin to be reflected in our operating results. We continue to experience improved order rates from several of our end markets. Automotive, service center, converter and appliance customer order rates in North America and Europe are at or near their highest levels in the last twelve months, while in other markets, such as construction, demand remains soft, but due to the low levels of inventory and the anticipated seasonal increases in activity at the end of the first quarter, our construction order book remains stable for both North America and Europe. A gradually strengthening economy should result in improvements in real demand, while apparent demand will likely be positively influenced by the restocking of the manufacturing supply chain, which we believe is under way. Relatively low levels of flat rolled product imports, if continued, are also expected to support improved order rates. Our Tubular operations are also continuing to experience favorable demand trends, most notably in alloy product at our welded operations in East Texas. At the same time, spot market prices are increasing across all of our segments in response to increased order rates and global raw material cost pressures. We continue to believe that the U.S. and global economies are in the early stages of a gradual recovery. While we are becoming more optimistic, primarily due to improvements we are starting to see in the manufacturing sector, we remain cautious in our outlook for end user demand. 80 Table of Contents Flat rolled results for first quarter 2010 are expected to improve from fourth quarter 2009. The benefits of increases in average realized prices and shipments, efficiencies from increased operating rates and reduced facility repair and maintenance costs are expected to be partially offset by the absence of approximately $55 million of favorable effects from LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Average realized prices are expected to increase from fourth quarter 2009 as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. Increases in our index based contract prices would be realized later as higher published market price assessments enter the index calculations for future periods. We are currently making steel at six of our seven North American steelmaking locations, with the exception being our Lake Erie Works, which represents approximately ten percent of our annual Flat rolled raw steel capability. We expect to complete maintenance work on our largest blast furnace, the #14 Blast Furnace at Gary Works, late in the first quarter and have all available capacity in operation at these six locations before the end of the quarter. Overall, raw steel capability utilization rates are expected to increase from the fourth quarter of 2009. First quarter 2010 results for USSE are expected to be comparable to fourth quarter 2009 as the benefits of increased shipments and operating efficiencies are expected to be offset by higher raw material costs. Euro based transaction prices are expected to be slightly higher than the fourth quarter as we expect to begin realizing the impact of increasing spot market prices later in the first quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to be lower due to foreign currency translation effects. We completed maintenance work on the #3 Blast Furnace at USSK in early February and we are currently operating all five of USSEs blast furnaces. We expect our Tubular operations to remain profitable in the first quarter. However, results are expected to decrease from the fourth quarter as the benefits of increased shipments are expected to be offset by increased costs as we continue to increase production to meet increased order rates, as well as the absence of $10 million of favorable fourth quarter items related to favorable effects of LIFO inventory liquidations and adjustments to employee layoff benefits. Seamless and welded tubular product prices are expected to improve throughout the quarter. However, reported average realized prices are expected to decrease as compared to the fourth quarter due to a higher proportion of welded tubular product shipments. We expect increased operating rates at all of our pipe facilities in the first quarter, most notably our welded pipe facility in East Texas. These expected increases should also benefit our Flat rolled operations that supply substrate requirements to our welded pipe facilities. Accounting Standards In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (FAS 167). FAS 167 is a revision to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, and amends the consolidation guidance for variable interest entities. Additionally, FAS 167 will require additional disclosures about involvement with variable interest entities and any significant changes in risk exposure due to that involvement. FAS 167 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 167 will result in the deconsolidation of certain of our current variable interest entities, including, Gateway Energy & Coke Company, LLC due to the addition of the power criteria in paragraph 14 of FAS 167. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 810, Consolidations Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities, to incorporate FAS 167. In June 2009, the FASB issued FAS No. 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets (FAS 166). FAS 166 is a revision to FAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities, and will require more information about transfer of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and enhanced disclosures when companies have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. Additionally, FAS 166 eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity. FAS 166 is effective January 1, 2010 for companies reporting on a calendar year basis. The adoption of FAS 166 will result in any Receivables Purchase Agreement transactions being accounted for as secured borrowing transactions as of January 1, 2010. In January 2010, the FASB updated ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, to incorporate FAS 166. See note 19 for further details of our accounts receivable facility. 81 Table of Contents Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Management Opinion Concerning Derivative Instruments U. S. Steel uses commodity based and foreign currency derivative instruments to manage our market and exchange rate risk. Management has authorized the use of futures, forwards, swaps and options to manage exposure to price fluctuations related to the purchase of natural gas and nonferrous metals, and also certain business transactions denominated in foreign currencies. For future periods, U. S. Steel may elect to use hedge accounting for certain commodity or currency transactions. For those transactions, the impact of the effective portion of the hedging instrument will be recognized in other comprehensive income until the transaction is settled. Once the transaction is settled, the effect of the hedged item will be recognized in income. While U. S. Steels risk management activities generally reduce market risk exposure due to unfavorable commodity price changes for raw material purchases and products sold, such activities can also encompass strategies that assume price risk. Management believes that the use of derivative instruments, along with risk assessment procedures and internal controls, does not expose U. S. Steel to material risk. The use of derivative instruments could materially affect U. S. Steels results of operations in particular quarterly or annual periods; however, management believes that the use of these instruments will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or liquidity. For further information regarding derivative instruments see Notes 1 and 15 to the Financial Statements. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk U. S. Steel, through USSE and USSC, is subject to the risk of price fluctuations due to the effects of exchange rates on revenues and operating costs, firm commitments for capital expenditures and existing assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, particularly the euro, the Serbian dinar and the Canadian dollar. U. S. Steel historically has made limited use of forward currency contracts to manage exposure to certain currency price fluctuations. U. S. Steel has not elected to use hedge accounting for these contracts. Foreign currency derivative instruments have been marked to market and the resulting gains or losses recognized in the current period in net interest and other financial costs. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, U. S. Steel had open euro forward sales contracts for U.S. dollars (total notional value of approximately $185 million and $363 million, respectively). A 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2009 euro forward rates would result in a $19 million charge to income. The fair value of our derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs, which are defined as significant other observable inputs. The inputs used include quotes from counterparties that are corroborated with market sources. Future foreign currency impacts will depend upon changes in currencies, the extent to which we engage in derivatives transactions and the balance of the Intercompany Loan. The amount and timing of such borrowings or repayments on the Intercompany Loan will depend upon profits and cash flows of our international operations, future international investments and financing activities, all of which will be impacted by market conditions, operating costs, shipments, prices and foreign exchange rates. Commodity Price Risk and Related Risks In the normal course of our business, U. S. Steel is exposed to market risk or price fluctuations related to the purchase, production or sale of steel products. U. S. Steel is also exposed to price risk related to the purchase, production or sale of coal, coke, natural gas, steel scrap, iron ore and pellets, and zinc, tin and other nonferrous metals used as raw materials. U. S. Steels market risk strategy has generally been to obtain competitive prices for our products and services and allow operating results to reflect market price movements dictated by supply and demand; however, U. S. Steel has made forward physical purchases to manage exposure to price risk related to the purchases of natural gas and certain non ferrous metals used in the production process. Historically, the forward physical purchase contracts for natural gas and nonferrous metals have qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 815. However, 82 Table of Contents due to reduced natural gas consumption in 2009, we net settled some of our excess natural gas purchase contracts for certain facilities. Therefore, the remaining contracts for natural gas at those facilities no longer met the exemption criteria and were therefore subject to mark to market accounting. As of December 31, 2009, there are no longer natural gas purchase contracts subject to mark to market accounting. Fixed price forward physical purchase contracts entered into for 2010 to partially manage our exposure to natural gas price risk qualify for the normal purchases normal sales exemption. The fair value of our natural gas derivatives is determined using Level 2 inputs. The inputs used include forward prices derived from the New York Mercantile Exchange. A 10 percent decrease in natural gas prices for open derivative instruments as of December 31, 2009, would not result in a material charge to income. U. S. Steel held commodity contracts for natural gas that qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption with a total notional value of approximately $44 million at December 31, 2009. Total commodity contracts for natural gas represent approximately 12 percent of our expected North American natural gas requirements. Interest Rate Risk U. S. Steel is subject to the effects of interest rate fluctuations on certain of our non derivative financial instruments. A sensitivity analysis of the projected incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent increase/decrease in year end 2009 and 2008 interest rates on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments is provided in the following table: (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 Non Derivative Financial Instruments(a) Fair Value(b) Increase in Fair Value(c) Fair Value(b) Increase inFair Value(c) Financial assets: Investments and long term receivables(d) $ 26 $ 0 $ 23 $ Financial liabilities: Debt(e)(f) $ 4,004 $ 172 $ 2,650 $ 106 (a) Fair values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables, notes payable, accounts payable and accrued interest approximate carrying value and are relatively insensitive to changes in interest rates due to the short term maturity of the instruments. Accordingly, these instruments are excluded from the table. (b) See Note 24 to the Financial Statements for carrying value of instruments. (c) Reflects, by class of financial instrument, the estimated incremental effect of a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates at December 31, 2009 and 2008, on the fair value of U. S. Steels non derivative financial instruments. For financial liabilities, this assumes a 10 percent decrease in the weighted average yield to maturity of U. S. Steels long term debt at December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008. (d) For additional information see Note 11 to the Financial Statements. (e) Excludes capital lease obligations. (f) Fair value was based on the yield on our public debt where available or current borrowing rates available for financings with similar terms and maturities. For additional information see Note 16 to the Financial Statements. U. S. Steels sensitivity to interest rate declines and corresponding increases in the fair value of our debt portfolio would unfavorably affect our results and cash flows only to the extent that we elected to repurchase or otherwise retire all or a portion of our fixed rate debt portfolio at prices above carrying value. At December 31, 2009, U. S. Steels portfolio of debt included 200 million ($288 million) of borrowing under a floating rate revolving credit facility, the fair value of which is not affected by interest rate declines. Safe Harbor U. S. Steels quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk include forward looking statements with respect to managements opinion about risks associated with U. S. Steels use of derivative instruments. These statements are based on certain assumptions with respect to market prices and industry supply of and demand for steel products and certain raw materials. To the extent that these assumptions prove to be inaccurate, future outcomes with respect to U. S. Steels hedging programs may differ materially from those discussed in the forward looking statements. 83 Table of Contents 
 
