Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis OUR BUSINESS Our Operations 14 Our Chairman and CEO Perspective 16 Our Customers 23 Our Distribution Network 24 Our Competition 24 Other Relationships 25 Our Business Risks 25 OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue Recognition 30 Brand and Goodwill Valuations 31 Income Tax Expense and Accruals 32 Stock Based Compensation Expense 33 Pension and Retiree Medical Plans 36 OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS Items Affecting Comparability 39 Results of Continuing Operations Consolidated Review 40 Results of Continuing Operations Division Review 45 Frito Lay North America 45 PepsiCo Beverages North America 46 PepsiCo International 48 Quaker Foods North America 49 Our Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position 50 Future Outlook 53 12 Consolidated Statement of Income 54 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 55 Consolidated Balance Sheet 57 Consolidated Statement of Common Shareholders Equity 58 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions 59 Note 2 Our Significant Accounting Policies 62 Note 3 Impairment and Restructuring Charges and Merger Related Costs 64 Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets 65 Note 5 Income Taxes 67 Note 6 Stock Based Compensation 69 Note 7 Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans 71 Note 8 Noncontrolled Bottling Affiliates 75 Note 9 Debt Obligations and Commitments 77 Note 10 Risk Management 79 Note 11 Net Income per Common Share from Continuing Operations 81 Note 12 Preferred and Common Stock 82 Note 13 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 83 Note 14 Supplemental Financial Information 83 MANAGEMENTS RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING 85 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 87 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 88 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY 90 GLOSSARY 91 13 Our discussion and analysis is an integral part of understanding our financial results. Definitions of key terms can be found in the glossary on page 91. Tabular dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts reflect common per share amounts, assume dilution unless noted, and are based on unrounded amounts. Percentage changes are based on unrounded amounts. OUR BUSINESS Our Operations We are a leading, global snack and beverage company. We manufacture, market and sell a variety of salty, convenient, sweet and grain based snacks, carbonated and non carbonated beverages and foods. We are organized in four divisions: Frito Lay North America, PepsiCo Beverages North America, PepsiCo International, and Quaker Foods North America. Net revenue and operating profit contributions to growth from each of our divisions in 2004 are as follows: Our North American divisions operate in the United States (U.S.) and Canada. Our international divisions operate in over 200 countries, with our largest operations in Mexico and the United Kingdom. Additional information concerning our divisions and geographic areas is presented in Note 1. Frito Lay North America Frito Lay North America (FLNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets, sells and distributes branded snacks. These snacks include Lays potato chips, Doritos flavored tortilla chips, Tostitos tortilla chips, Cheetos cheese flavored snacks, Fritos corn chips, Ruffles potato chips, branded dips, Rold Gold pretzels, Quaker Chewy granola bars, Sun Chips multigrain snacks, Munchies snack mix, Grandmas cookies, Lays Stax potato crisps, Quaker Fruit & Oatmeal bars, Quaker Quakes corn and rice snacks, Cracker Jack candy coated popcorn, and Go Snacks. FLNA branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. 14 PepsiCo Beverages North America PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mountain Dew, Gatorade, Tropicana Pure Premium, Sierra Mist, Mug, Tropicana juice drinks, Propel, SoBe, Slice, Dole, Tropicana Twister and Tropicana Seasons Best. PBNA also manufactures, markets and sells ready to drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with Lipton and Starbucks. In addition, PBNA licenses the Aquafina water brand to its bottlers and markets this brand. PBNA sells concentrate and finished goods for some of these brands to bottlers licensed by us, and some of these branded products are sold directly by us to independent distributors and retailers. The franchise bottlers sell our brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers. PBNAs volume reflects sales to its independent distributors and retailers, and the sales of beverages bearing our trademarks that franchise bottlers have reported as sold to independent distributors and retailers. PepsiCo International PepsiCo International (PI) manufactures through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates, a number of leading salty and sweet snack brands including Gamesa and Sabritas in Mexico, Walkers in the United Kingdom, and Smiths in Australia. Further, PI manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells many Quaker brand snacks. PI also manufactures, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under the brands Pepsi, 7UP, Mirinda, Gatorade, Mountain Dew and Tropicana. These brands are sold to franchise bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. However, in certain markets, PI operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. PI also licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its franchise bottlers. PI reports two measures of volume. Snack volume is reported on a system wide basis, which includes our own volume and the volume sold by our noncontrolled affiliates. Beverage volume reflects company owned and franchise bottler sales of beverages bearing our trademarks to independent distributors and retailers. Quaker Foods North America Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNAs products include Quaker oatmeal, Aunt Jemima mixes and syrups, Quaker grits, Capn Crunch and Life ready to eat cereals, Rice A Roni, Pasta Roni and Near East side dishes. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. 15 Our Chairman and CEO Perspective The questions below reflect those commonly asked by our shareholders, and are followed by answers from our Chairman and CEO, Steve Reinemund. How will you sustain growth? By taking our competitive strengths, and investing in them to create longer term value. That may sound a bit simplistic, but heres what I mean. PepsiCo has three key advantages: 1. big, muscular brands, 2. the proven ability to innovate and create differentiated products, and 3. powerful go to market systems. What makes this all work are the extraordinarily talented, dedicated people at PepsiCo. When we take those competitive advantages, and invest in them with dollars generated from top line growth and cost saving initiatives, we sustain a value cycle for our shareholders. In essence, investing in innovation fuels the building of our brands; this in turn drives top line growth. Dollars from that top line growth are strategically reinvested back into new products and other innovation, along with cost savings projects, and thus the cycle continues. Your cycle of reinvestment relies on your ability to grow brands. Are PepsiCos brands up to the challenge? Yes. With 16 brands that each generate over a billion dollars of retail sales annually, and many more moving in that direction, we have big global icon brands that sit squarely in the sweet spot of convenience. We constantly differentiate those brands in the marketplace by what we do with ingredients and nutrition science, product packaging and processing. And, we create points of difference with marketplace solutions in our retail environment, exciting the consumers who ultimately buy our products. We have more of these icon brands than any other food and beverage company in the world, and we continue to add new products to the portfolio through internal innovations combined with smaller, tuck in acquisitions with our international businesses. How do you invest in, and differentiate, PepsiCos brands? We invest in many ways, including advertising and merchandising. Id say innovation is the most impactful option. Innovation lives at the core of any successful consumer products company. Our organization is structured to capture consumer insights, and customer or retailer insights as well. Strategically, we look at innovation in three 16 ways, or types. Type A innovation is what we call close in ideas like new flavors of existing products. Type B innovation is represented in new products delivering additional benefits or meeting specific consumer preferences, but generally within existing brands. For example, Tostitos Scoops tortilla chips, Lays Stax potato crisps or Tropicana Light n Healthy beverages are products more incremental to the business than Type A. Type C innovation is focused on new platforms, like delivering chilled products directly to the store; or entirely new products, like new Quaker Milk Chillers and Tropicana Fruit Integrity, which delivers a fruit serving in a new, fun snack format. These products are mostly incremental, and weve centralized our research and development for this kind of innovation so we can put our resources into developing really big ideas. Our goal is to incorporate more Type B and Type C innovation into our pipeline. In this way, we may have fewer new products every year, but more of our new product revenues will be incremental. This has already been happening at Frito Lay, with products like Lays Stax potato crisps. On the beverage side, we are finding that in and out products those with limited time availability can create a lot of excitement and incremental volume over a set time period. These products are relatively easy to develop, and we work closely with our bottling partners on the right timing. For example, in 2004, we introduced Mountain Dew Pitch Black just as Mountain Dew LiveWire was winding down. Then, we introduced Pepsi Holiday Spice for the year end holiday season. These all contribute to differentiating our brands. You talked about innovation in terms of brands. Are you innovating in other ways? Were innovating in ways that go beyond traditional brand ideas. For example, we look at health and wellness as an opportunity to be an active part of the solution. Weve improved the healthfulness of our existing products by taking important steps like eliminating trans fats in our Frito Lay chips, reducing saturated fats in Walkers crisps and reducing sugar in some food and beverage products in the United States and other markets. Weve also developed new products that deliver more powerful health benefits, like Quaker Take Heart Oatmeal, which can help reduce cholesterol and help maintain healthy blood pressure two important factors for heart health. The Tropicana Pure Premium line of fortified orange juices is another great example. And we strengthened the Quaker snack line with products like new soy crisps, and new or improved bar products. In 2005, well grow our beverage portfolio with innovation in diet carbonated soft drinks. Well also add a new line of Gatorade Endurance Formula and Aquafina flavored waters in carbonated and non carbonated varieties. With snacks, were relaunching Light versions of our chips with reduced calories and fat. 17 As an umbrella logo that applies to more than 100 products in our portfolio, weve developed a new Smart Spot trademark in the United States and Canada. The Smart Spot symbol helps consumers find our products that can contribute to healthier lifestyles. The Smart Spot program is based on authoritative statements from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). Smart Spot products are the fastest growing part of our North American product portfolio, with revenue growth approximately double that of our fun for you products. This strategic marketplace solution exists at the intersection of public interest and business interests, and we intend to continue capturing growth through health and wellness solutions that address energy balance. Youve said PepsiCos health and wellness initiatives are based on the concept of energy balance. What do you mean by this? Energy balance challenges consumers to look at calories consumed, as well as calories burned, through physical activity and exercise. Were investing in solutions that address both. Weve committed to achieving more than half of our new product revenues from Smart Spot products in North America, and our projections show well significantly surpass that goal. Were also stepping up efforts in our new product pipeline to capture this opportunity in markets around the world. On the physical activity front, we believe we can be part of the solution as well. For example, were the national presenting sponsor for America on the Move, a national initiative designed to help Americans achieve energy balance by taking 2,000 more steps a day and reducing calories by 100 each day. Its been proven to work, and can help almost anyone get started making simple changes to achieve a healthier lifestyle. Were also funding other efforts that range from activity based initiatives with the YMCA, to research based programming, like the partnership Gatorade has with the University of North Carolinas School of Public Health to understand what can help prevent childhood obesity. With the emphasis on Smart Spot, how will you balance investments in the larger, fun for you portfolio? Our goal is to offer a balanced and broad PepsiCo portfolio with a range of great tasting product choices. While our better for you product portfolio is growing at an impressive clip, we also know that its critical to drive growth in our flagship, heritage brands that comprise our fun for you portfolio. For example, within Frito Lays core salty portfolio, we focused on Tostitos with an entirely new logo and packaging, and an aggressive on shelf strategy to drive visibility and growth for this venerable billion dollar brand. Were improving Doritos Nacho Cheesier tortilla chips and making Doritos Black Pepper Jack tortilla chips a permanent addition to our line. On the beverage side of the business, we have aggressive plans for our trademark Pepsi, Mountain Dew and Sierra Mist brands that demonstrate we remain committed to growing these larger, legacy businesses as well. 18 In the past, youve talked about the power of Frito Lays direct store delivery (DSD) system differentiating Frito Lay in the marketplace. Now, you seem to be taking a new approach with a 50% increase in media spending that is being partially funded by the plant consolidations. Is there a change in strategy? Frito Lays well known brands feature great taste and really appeal to consumers. The power of the companys virtually unrivaled distribution system has enabled us to differentiate these products in the marketplace, and rely to a lesser extent on high impact marketing and advertising. With an explosion of convenient foods choices in the categories where Frito Lay competes, we need to communicate even more aggressively to strengthen our bond with consumers and highlight our choices for snacking occasions in order to continue growing our top line. Historically, there has been a focus on your North America business. How does the international market figure into your growth targets? The growth and expansion of our international businesses are vital. PepsiCo International became our largest division by revenues in 2004. While the year was extraordinary, for the longer term we believe that we can grow our international business at about twice the rate of growth for the United States into the foreseeable future. Were confident because we have clear leadership of the global snack category, and significantly lower per capita consumption outside the United States. Our volumes are increasing in every region, and were demonstrating we can capture opportunities by customizing our snack products to meet local tastes and packaging preferences. For example, in Thailand, weve introduced Nori Seaweed Lays potato chips, and in China, weve captured new office snacking opportunities through a new pull out tray with Lays Stax potato crisps. On the beverage side, we have a disciplined, focused growth strategy that includes carbonated and non carbonated brands. Weve introduced flavor innovations tailored to our markets, new consumer friendly packaging, and enjoyed great success with high impact advertising and music and sports marketing. Overlaying our flexible portfolio, we have global productivity programs in ever increasing scale, and a diverse, talented and experienced team from the front line to senior management. All these elements combine to give us great confidence in our international business and its ability to fire on all cylinders. Returning to the question about sustainable growth, you included powerful go to market systems as a competitive advantage. What do you mean? PepsiCo arguably has the most diverse set of distribution systems of any consumer product company, including direct store delivery (DSD) at Frito Lay and our bottling partners, warehouse delivery for Quaker products, and warehouse delivery and chilled DSD at Tropicana. 19 The reach and scale of these systems provide considerable cost efficiency and system effectiveness in driving value. Our systems deliver product freshness and quality for the consumer, generate cash flow for our retail customers, and provide economic value for PepsiCo. Our products respond very well to merchandising, and need to be replenished often because they sell so quickly. By having our DSD associates deliver products and stock the shelves themselves, we save retailers money by doing this labor for them, and help make sure our products are fresh, available and displayed to our advantage. Youve referenced PepsiCos Power of One as a competitive capability. Can you provide some examples of the advantages that Power of One offers retailers? Our Power of One really speaks to our ability to use all of PepsiCos products, services and talents for the advantage of our retail partners. Whether its a joint promotion between Pepsi and Frito Lay for Super Bowl Sunday, a breakfast bundling opportunity with Quaker and Tropicana brands, creating a shared service unit to support our businesses in Mexico or combining our products that contribute to healthier lifestyles under the Smart Spot banner, the idea is to combine the strength of our brands and businesses to develop customized solutions for customers. This, in turn, drives incremental growth for them, and for us. We view this as a key strategic growth driver, and will continue to invest in such things as integrated customer teams, research into consumer insights, and creating customized retail solutions to drive growth. Retail volume growth seems to be slowing in some channels, such as supermarkets, and accelerating in large format and discount channels. How is that trend affecting PepsiCo? Its obviously important for us to be well represented in all channels. Like all consumer product companies, we have benefited from the growth of mass merchandisers, clubs and dollar stores. At the same time, were just as committed to working closely with our supermarket partners to help them grow. The consolidation of retailers has made our Power of One initiative increasingly important. We can approach these retailers as a powerful partner in supporting their growth objectives. Ultimately, we need to ensure that we have the right products, package sizes, and price points in each channel so that we can maximize growth in each. Pricing is a key element of our mix. Consumers demand value, which especially means low prices, so we cant depend on price increases for revenue growth. Thats why our focus on innovation, commitment to improving product mix, and the priority on delivering customized retail solutions are key to the growth of PepsiCo and our retail customers. 20 How do you ensure you can deliver on all the priorities required by brand and product investment, and go to market systems? In a word, its about people our ultimate and truest source of competitive advantage. We continue to invest in our people as well. One of the strengths Wall Street has noticed about PepsiCo is our ability to grow talent from within the company particularly bench strength for our most senior team. I think this reflects a number of our people priorities. For starters, were passionate about developing leaders. Thats why we provide the training, tools and experiences that give us many options when it comes to preparing leaders for tomorrow. But developing this kind of bench strength demands a comprehensive view of people. Thats why we have a focus on diversity and inclusion as a strategic lever to drive the business. As a leading consumer products company, we strive to recruit a diverse workforce to assist us in serving our diverse consumer base. Thats diversity. Equally important, we must ensure were creating and sustaining an environment that allows everyone to contribute at his or her maximum potential in order for the best ideas to come forward and thats inclusion. We hold our leaders accountable and reward them on their ability to create and sustain a diverse and inclusive workforce at PepsiCo. Were seeing progress. In the last two years, weve put 11,000 associates through a first level of diversity and inclusion training and more than 6,000 associates through a second level of inclusion training. Our ongoing internal measurement of how associates observe diverse and inclusive behavior in management shows were moving the dial as well. I know that our 2004 growth benefited from our diversity and inclusion efforts. Product flavor ideas, promotions and advertising benefited from the views of the entire spectrum of our associates. Our successes reinforce that we are on the right track, and we remain committed to this strategic priority as a key growth driver. We know that diversity and inclusion is a journey in fact, a marathon and well continue investing in the journey to reap its utmost benefits. With your focus on diversity and inclusion, brand building, and go to market capabilities, how will you fund everything? Some of the investment comes from top line growth, and some of it comes from productivity initiatives around the world. Whether in supply chain manufacturing, procurement of goods and services, or more efficient trade and media spending, at any given time PepsiCo has hundreds of productivity programs under way. 21 We view these efforts to control costs as critical fuel for brand building and innovation work, which leads to top line growth that we can use to fund further productivity projects. Thats the value creation cycle I mentioned earlier, and it provides flexibility for us to meet our stated double digit earnings goals. At the same time, it allows us to return cash to shareholders through our share buyback program and dividend payments, which PepsiCos Board of Directors increased by 44% in 2004. What is Business Process Transformation (BPT) and how does it contribute to the business? Business Process Transformation (BPT) is the comprehensive effort to drive efficiencies at PepsiCo, and fuel our future growth. It includes efforts to physically consolidate, or hardwire, key business functions to take advantage of our scale. It also includes moving to a common set of processes that underlie our key activities, and supporting these activities with common technology applications. And finally, its about linking our systems so that data will flow seamlessly from system to system. Our SAP installation the computer system that will link all of PepsiCos systems and processes is the linchpin for these efforts. A special project team has started implementing this multi year BPT effort. While obviously requiring funding, this is exactly the kind of initiative which is designed to yield efficiencies that we can reinvest back into our business for many years to come. Once BPT is fully implemented, well have flexibility in everything we do. Well be able to more easily change any product through better control of our supply chain. Well have even greater accuracy in our operations, removing the need for checking and rechecking. Well also achieve efficiencies and consistency by delivering lower costs through common processes and expanded IT capabilities, delivered through one face to the customer. Well have end to end, real time visibility to data that allows us to use information as a true strategic tool. And finally, with a common IT platform, well be able to more quickly expand to take on new businesses seamlessly. PepsiCo has a lot to accomplish. How do you balance current and future needs without compromising anything? Here again, it ultimately comes down to people and the values they hold. In last years annual report, our theme was Growth and Trust. We emphasized the importance of growth in the right way as a responsible corporate citizen. Our focus remains centered on behaving in this way. For example, we continue to make progress with our efforts in environmental management and sustainability. I encourage shareholders, once again, to read the Corporate Social Responsibility Report in this publication. But its also important to understand that we continue to spend a considerable amount of time and energy reinforcing the PepsiCo Values that will get us growth the right way for our future. We 22 remain steadfast in our commitment to sustained growth, through empowered people, acting with responsibility and building trust. When you think about it, were lining up what we do best and investing in those capabilities to drive value today and into our future. And were doing it in a responsible way. Our shareholders demand this kind of responsible growth and should expect nothing less, just like all of us at PepsiCo. Our Customers Our customers include franchise bottlers and independent distributors and retailers. We grant our bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements specify the amount to be paid by our bottlers for concentrate and full goods and for Aquafina royalties, as well as the manufacturing process required for product quality. Since we do not sell directly to the consumer, we rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our products. For our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume based rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. For our bottlers, these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade and consumer programs, such as consumer incentives, advertising support, new product support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. Consumer incentives include coupons, pricing discounts and promotions, such as sweepstakes and other promotional offers. Advertising support is directed at advertising programs and supporting bottler media. New product support includes targeted consumer and retailer incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point of purchase materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. Vending and cooler equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending machines and cooler equipment. The nature and type of programs vary annually. The level of bottler funding is at our discretion because these incentives are not required by the terms of our bottling contracts. Sales to Wal Mart Stores, Inc. represent approximately 11% of our total net revenue. Retail consolidation has increased the importance of major customers and further consolidation is expected. Our top five retail customers currently represent approximately 27% of our 2004 North American net revenue, with Wal Mart representing approximately 14%. In addition, sales to The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG) represent approximately 10% of our total net revenue. See Our Related Party Bottlers and Note 8 for more information on our anchor bottlers. Our Related Party Bottlers We have ownership interests in certain of our bottlers. Our ownership is less than 50% and since we do not control these bottlers, we do not consolidate their results. We include our share of their net income based on our percentage of economic ownership in our income statement as bottling equity income. We have designated three related 23 party bottlers, PBG, PepsiAmericas, Inc. (PAS) and Pepsi Bottling Ventures LLC (PBV), as our anchor bottlers. Our anchor bottlers distribute approximately 65% of our North American beverage volume and approximately 20% of our international beverage volume. Our anchor bottlers participate in the bottler funding programs described above. Approximately 12% of our total 2004 sales incentives related to these bottlers. See Note 8 for additional information on these related parties and related party commitments and guarantees. Our Distribution Network Our products are brought to market through direct store delivery, broker warehouse and food service and vending distribution networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics, and local trade practices. Direct Store Delivery We and our bottlers operate direct store delivery systems that deliver snacks and beverages directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our bottlers. Direct store delivery enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. Direct store delivery is especially well suited to products that are restocked often and respond to in store promotion and merchandising. Broker Warehouse Some of our products are delivered from our warehouses to customer warehouses and retail stores. These less costly systems generally work best for products that are less fragile and perishable, have lower turnover, and are less likely to be impulse purchases. Foodservice and Vending Our foodservice and vending sales force distributes snacks, foods and beverages to third party foodservice and vending distributors and operators, and for certain beverages, distributes through our bottlers. This distribution system supplies our products to schools, businesses, stadiums, restaurants and similar locations. Our Competition Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against global, regional and private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality, product variety and effective distribution. Our chief beverage competitor, The Coca Cola Company, has a slightly larger share of CSD consumption in the United States, while we have a larger share of chilled juices and isotonics. In addition, The Coca Cola Company maintains a significant CSD share advantage in many markets outside North America. Further, our snack brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack industry worldwide and face local and regional competitors, as well as national and global snack competitors, on issues related to price, quality, variety and distribution. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products and the 24 introduction of new products. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allow us to compete effectively. Other Relationships Certain members of our Board of Directors also serve on the boards of certain vendors and customers. Those Board members do not participate in our vendor selection and negotiations nor in our customer negotiations. Our transactions with these vendors and customers are in the normal course of business and are consistent with terms negotiated with other vendors and customers. In addition, certain of our employees serve on the boards of our anchor bottlers and other affiliated companies and do not receive incremental compensation for their Board services. Our Business Risks Our Approach to Managing Risks We are subject to risks in the normal course of business due to adverse developments affecting: our reputation; information technology; product demand and retail consolidation; global economic conditions; regulatory environment; workforce retention; and market risks. We manage these and other risks through an integrated risk management framework. This framework includes: the PepsiCo Executive Risk Council (PERC), comprised of a cross functional, geographically diverse, senior management group which meets periodically to identify, assess, prioritize and address primarily strategic and reputational risks; Division Risk Committees (DRC), comprised of cross functional senior management teams which meet regularly each year to identify, assess, prioritize and address division specific operating risks; PepsiCos Risk Management Office, which manages the overall process, provides ongoing guidance, tools and analytical support to the PERC and DRC, identifies and assesses potential risks, and facilitates ongoing communication between the parties, as well as to PepsiCos Audit Committee; and PepsiCo Corporate Audit, which confirms the ongoing effectiveness of the risk management framework through periodic audit and review procedures. Also see Market Risks below for a discussion on how we manage specific market risks. 25 Our Reputation We have a longstanding history of maintaining a good reputation globally which is critical to selling our branded products. If we fail to maintain high standards for product quality and integrity, our reputation could be jeopardized. In addition, we must protect our reputation by maintaining high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities. Damage to our reputation might result in rejection of our products by consumers and a loss of brand equity, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. Information Technology Information technology is becoming increasingly important as an enabler to operating efficiently and interfacing with customers, as well as maintaining financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do not allocate, and effectively manage, the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. As discussed by our chairman, we have embarked on our multiyear BPT initiative that includes the delivery of an SAP enterprise resource planning application, as well as the migration to common business processes across our North American operations. The inability to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently, and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption. Product Demand and Retail Consolidation We are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. To generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. As our chairman notes, our continued success is dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a strong pipeline of new products, effective sales incentives, appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs, and the ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers. In addition, our success depends on our responses to consumer trends, such as low carbohydrate diets, consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients, and changes in product category consumption and consumer demographics, including the aging of the general population. Seasonal weather conditions, particularly for sports drinks and hot cereals, can also impact demand. Our top five retail customers now represent approximately 27% of our North American net revenue reflecting the continuing consolidation of the retail trade. In this environment, there continue to be competitive product and pricing pressures, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including our retailers and anchor bottlers, to effectively compete. 26 Global Economic and Environmental Conditions Unforeseen global economic and environmental changes and political unrest may result in business interruption, supply constraints, foreign currency devaluation, inflation, deflation or decreased demand. Economic conditions in North America could also adversely impact growth. For example, rising fuel costs may impact the sales of our products in convenience stores where our products are generally sold in higher margin single serve packages. Regulatory Environment Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, impact our results or increase our liabilities. Such regulatory environment changes include changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and deceptive marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws and environmental laws, including the regulation of water consumption and treatment. Workforce Retention Our continued growth requires us to develop our leadership bench and to implement programs, such as our long term incentive program, designed to retain talent. We also compete to hire new employees, and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. We have in place human resource programs, including our diversity and inclusion focus mentioned by our chairman, aimed at hiring, developing and retaining our talented and motivated workforce which provides us with competitive advantage. However, unplanned turnover could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. Market Risks We are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in: commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy; foreign exchange rates; interest rates; stock prices; and discount rates, affecting the measurement of our pension and retiree medical liabilities. In the normal course of business, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, including productivity initiatives, global purchasing programs and hedging strategies. Ongoing productivity initiatives involve the identification of meaningful cost saving opportunities or efficiencies and effective implementation. Our global purchasing programs include fixed price purchase orders and pricing agreements. Our hedging strategies involve the use of derivatives designated as cash flow and fair value hedges. The fair value of our hedges fluctuates based on market rates and prices. The sensitivity 27 of our hedges to these market fluctuations is discussed below. See Note 10 for further discussion of these hedges and our hedging policies. See Our Critical Accounting Policies for a discussion of the exposure of our pension plan assets and pension and retiree medical liabilities to risks related to stock prices and discount rates. Inflationary, deflationary and recessionary conditions impacting these market risks also impact the demand for and pricing of our products. See Product Demand and Retail Consolidation and Global Economic Conditions above for further discussion. Commodity Prices Our open commodity derivative contracts designated as hedges had a face value of $155 million at December 25, 2004 and $43 million at December 27, 2003. These derivatives resulted in a net unrealized loss of $1 million at December 25, 2004 and $4 million at December 27, 2003. We estimate that a 10% decline in commodity prices would have resulted in an unrealized loss of $16 million in 2004 and $1 million in 2003. Foreign Exchange Financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using period end exchange rates for assets and liabilities and weighted average exchange rates for revenues and expenses. Adjustments resulting from translating net assets are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within shareholders equity, called currency translation adjustment. Our operations outside of the U.S. generate over a third of our net revenue of which Mexico, the United Kingdom and Canada comprise nearly 20%. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency risks, including unforeseen economic changes and political unrest. During 2004, the impact of the favorable euro and British pound was partially offset by the unfavorable Mexican peso resulting in a contribution of almost 2 percentage points to revenue growth. If declines in the Mexican peso continue and are not offset, our future results will be adversely impacted. Exchange rate gains or losses related to foreign currency transactions are recognized as transaction gains or losses in the income statement as incurred. We may enter into derivatives to manage our exposure to foreign currency transaction risk. Our foreign currency derivatives had a total face value of $908 million at December 25, 2004 and $484 million at December 27, 2003. These contracts had net unrealized losses of $27 million at December 25, 2004 and $30 million at December 27, 2003, respectively. We estimate that an unfavorable 10% change in the exchange rates would have resulted in an unrealized loss of $123 million in 2004 and $50 million in 2003, respectively. 28 Interest Rates We centrally manage our debt and investment portfolios considering investment opportunities and risks, tax consequences and overall financing strategies. We may use interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps to manage our overall interest expense and foreign exchange risk. These instruments effectively change the interest rate and currency of specific debt issuances. These swaps are entered into concurrently with the issuance of the debt that they are intended to modify. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt. Our counterparty credit risk is considered low because these swaps are entered into only with strong creditworthy counterparties, are generally settled on a net basis and are of relatively short duration. Assuming year end 2004 and 2003 variable rate debt and investment levels, a one point increase in interest rates would have decreased net interest expense by $11 million in 2004 and $10 million in 2003. Stock Prices A portion of our deferred compensation liability is tied to certain market indices and our stock price. We manage these market risks with mutual fund investments and prepaid forward contracts for the purchase of our stock. The combined gains or losses on these investments are offset by changes in our deferred compensation liability, which are included in corporate selling, general and administrative expenses. We discuss expectations regarding our future performance, such as our business outlook, in our annual and quarterly reports, press releases, and other written and oral statements. These forward looking statements are based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data and our operating plans. They are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could turn out to be significantly different from our expectations. The preceding discussion of risks is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our trends and future results. OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES An appreciation of our critical accounting policies is necessary to understand our financial results. These policies may require management to make difficult and subjective judgments regarding uncertainties, and as a result, such estimates may significantly impact our financial results. The precision of these estimates and the likelihood of future changes depend on a number of underlying variables and a range of possible outcomes. Other than our accounting for stock based compensation and certain allocation methodologies for pension and retiree medical, our critical accounting policies do not involve the choice between alternative methods of accounting. We applied our critical accounting policies and estimation methods consistently in all periods presented and have discussed these policies with our Audit Committee. 29 Our critical accounting policies arise in conjunction with the following: revenue recognition, brand and goodwill valuations, income tax expense and accruals, stock based compensation expense, and pension and retiree medical plans. Revenue Recognition Our products are sold for cash or on credit terms. Our credit terms, which are established in accordance with local and industry practices, typically require payment within 30 days of delivery and may allow discounts for early payment. We recognize revenue upon shipment or delivery to our customers in accordance with written sales terms that do not allow for a right of return. However, our policy for DSD and chilled products is to remove and replace damaged and out of date products from store shelves to ensure that consumers receive the product quality and freshness they expect. Similarly, our policy for warehouse distributed products is to replace damaged and out of date products. Based on our historical experience with this practice, we have reserved for anticipated damaged and out of date products. Our bottlers have a similar replacement policy and are responsible for the products they distribute. Our policy is to provide customers with product when needed. In fact, our commitment to freshness and product dating serves to regulate the quantity of product shipped or delivered. In addition, DSD products are placed on the shelf by our employees with customer shelf space limiting the quantity of product. For product delivered through our other distribution networks, customer inventory levels are monitored. As discussed in Our Customers, we offer sales incentives through various programs to customers and consumers. Sales incentives are accounted for as a reduction of sales and totaled $6.6 billion in 2004, $6.0 billion in 2003 and $5.5 billion in 2002. Sales incentives include payments to customers for performing merchandising activities on our behalf, such as payments for in store displays, payments to gain distribution of new products, payments for shelf space, and discounts to promote lower retail prices. A number of our sales incentives, such as bottler funding and customer volume rebates, are based on annual targets, and accruals are established during the year for the expected payout. These accruals are based on our historical experience with similar programs and require management judgment with respect to estimating customer participation and performance levels. The terms of most of our incentive arrangements do not exceed a year, and therefore do not require highly uncertain long term estimates. For interim reporting, we estimate total annual sales incentives and record a pro rata share in proportion to revenue. Certain arrangements, including fountain pouring rights, may extend up to 15 years. The costs incurred to obtain these arrangements are recognized over the life of the contract as a reduction of revenue, and the outstanding balances of $337 million at year end 2004 and $359 million at year end 2003 are included in other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 30 We estimate and reserve for our bad debt exposure based on our experience with past due accounts. Our method of determining the reserves has been consistent during the years presented in the consolidated financial statements. Bad debt expense is classified within selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Brand and Goodwill Valuations We sell products under a number of brand names, many of which were developed by us. The brand development costs are expensed as incurred. We also purchase brands and goodwill in acquisitions. Upon acquisition, the purchase price is first allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities, including brands, based on estimated fair value, with any remaining purchase price recorded as goodwill. We believe that a brand has an indefinite life if it has significant market share in a stable macroeconomic environment, and a history of strong revenue and cash flow performance that we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual brand criteria are not met, brands are amortized over their expected useful lives, which generally range from five to 20 years. Determining the expected life of a brand requires considerable management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors, including the competitive environment, market share, brand history and the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the brand is sold. Goodwill, including the goodwill that is part of our noncontrolled bottling investment balances, and perpetual brands are not amortized. Perpetual brands and goodwill are assessed for impairment at least annually to ensure that discounted future cash flows continue to exceed the related book value. A perpetual brand is impaired if its book value exceeds its fair value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment if the book value of its reporting unit exceeds its fair value. A reporting unit can be a division or business within a division. If the fair value of an evaluated asset is less than its book value, the asset is written down to fair value based on its discounted future cash flows. Amortizable brands are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating or macroeconomic environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on its discounted future cash flows. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate future cash flows. Assumptions used in our impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are consistent with our internal forecasts and operating plans. These assumptions could be adversely impacted by certain of the risks discussed in the Our Business Risks section, including, but not limited to, operating risks, product demand and the competitive landscape. We did not recognize any impairment charges for perpetual brands or goodwill during the years presented. As of December 25, 2004, we had $4.8 billion of perpetual brands and 31 goodwill, of which nearly 75% related to Tropicana and Walkers. In our most recent impairment evaluations for Tropicana and Walkers, no impairment charges would have resulted even if the fair market values resulting from our discounted cash flow analyses were assumed to be 5% lower. Income Tax Expense and Accruals In 2004, our annual tax rate for continuing operations was 24.7% compared to 28.5% in 2003 as discussed in Other Consolidated Results. The tax rate in 2004 decreased 3.8 percentage points primarily as a result of the favorable resolution of certain open tax issues. For 2005, our annual tax rate is expected to be 29.4%, reflecting the absence of the favorable 2004 resolutions, and excluding any impact of the potential repatriation of certain undistributed international earnings discussed below and in Note 5. Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are subject to challenge and that we may not succeed. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit. An estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to our quarterly operating results. In the event there is a significant or unusual item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is separately calculated and recorded at the same time as that item. We consider the tax benefits from the resolution of prior year tax matters to be such items. Tax law requires items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. As a result, our annual tax rate reflected in our financial statements is different than that reported in our tax return (our cash tax rate). Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in our tax return in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets when we believe expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of a deduction or credit in that tax jurisdiction. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which we have already taken a deduction in our tax return but we have not yet recognized as expense in our financial statements. 32 We have not recognized any U.S. tax expense on undistributed international earnings since we intend to reinvest the earnings outside the U.S. for the foreseeable future, subject to the opportunity afforded us as a result of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA). Our undistributed earnings are approximately $11.9 billion at December 25, 2004, and $8.8 billion at December 27, 2003. We are currently contemplating taking advantage of the AJCA for up to $7.5 billion of our undistributed foreign earnings. See Note 5 for further discussion on the AJCA and its potential impact on our 2005 results. A number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for which we have established a reserve, is audited and finally resolved. The number of years with open tax audits varies depending on the tax jurisdiction. During 2004, we recognized $266 million of tax benefits related to the favorable resolution of certain open tax issues. In addition, in 2004, we recognized a benefit of $38 million upon agreement with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on an open issue related to our discontinued restaurant operations. At the end of 2003, we entered into agreements with the IRS for open years through 1997. These agreements resulted in a tax benefit of $109 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. As part of these agreements, we also resolved the treatment of certain other issues related to future tax years. The IRS has initiated their audits of our tax returns for the years 1998 through 2002. Our tax returns subsequent to 2002 have not yet been examined. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, we believe that our reserves reflect the probable outcome of known tax contingencies. Settlement of any particular issue would usually require the use of cash. Favorable resolution would be recognized as a reduction to our annual tax rate in the year of resolution. Our tax reserves, covering all federal, state and foreign jurisdictions, are presented in the balance sheet within other liabilities (see Note 14), except for any amounts relating to items we expect to pay in the coming year which are included in current income taxes payable. For more information on the impact of the resolution of open tax issues, see Other Consolidated Results and Our Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position. Stock Based Compensation Expense We believe that we will achieve our best results if our employees act and are rewarded as business owners. Therefore, we believe stock ownership and stock based incentive awards are the best way to align the interests of employees with those of our shareholders. Historically, following competitive market practices, we have used stock option grants as our primary form of long term incentive compensation. These grants are made at the current stock price, meaning each employees exercise price is equivalent to our stock price on the date of grant. Employees must generally provide three additional years of service to earn the grant, referred to as the vesting period. Our options generally have a 10 year term, which means our employees would have up to seven years after the vesting period to elect to pay the exercise price to purchase one share of our stock for each option exercised. Employees benefit from stock options to the extent our stock price appreciates above the exercise price after vesting and during the term of the grant. 33 There have been no reductions to the exercise price of previously issued awards, and any repricing of awards would require approval of our shareholders. Our new executive compensation program, effective for 2004, strengthens the relationship between pay and individual performance through greater differentiation in the amount of base pay, bonus and stock based compensation based on an employees responsibility and performance. The new program results in a shift of both cash and stock based compensation to our top performing executives. In addition, our new program provides executives, who are awarded long term incentives based on their performance, with a choice of stock options or restricted stock units (RSUs). RSUs generally vest after three years of service and each restricted stock unit can be settled in a share of our stock after the vesting period. Executives who elect RSUs receive one RSU for every four stock options that would have otherwise been granted. Senior officers do not have a choice and are granted 50% stock options and 50% RSUs. Vesting of RSU awards for senior officers is contingent upon the achievement of pre established performance targets. We also continued, as we have since 1989, to grant an annual award of stock options to all eligible employees, based on job level or classification under our broad based stock option program, SharePower. As part of the new compensation program in 2004, the SharePower program grant was reduced by approximately 50% for employees in the U.S. and replaced with matching contributions of PepsiCo stock to our 401(k) savings plans. We did not reduce the SharePower award for international employees and continued using tenure as a base for delivering the award in addition to job level and classification. For additional information on our 401(k) savings plans, see Note 7. Method of Accounting We account for our employee stock options under the fair value method of accounting using a Black Scholes valuation model to measure stock based compensation expense at the date of grant. We do not expect Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 123R, Share Based Payment, to materially impact our financial statements upon adoption no later than in the fourth quarter of 2005. Two of our anchor bottlers, PBG and PAS, will be adopting SFAS 123R in 2005. They are currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 123R which will consequently impact our bottling equity income. Beginning in 2004, our divisions were held accountable for stock based compensation expense and, therefore, this expense is allocated to our divisions as an incremental employee compensation cost. Prior year division results have been adjusted for comparability. The allocation of compensation expense is approximately 28% FLNA, 19% PBNA, 32% PI, 4% QFNA and 17% corporate unallocated. The expense allocated to our divisions excludes any impact of changes in our Black Scholes assumptions which reflect market conditions over which division management has no control. Therefore, any variances between allocated expense and our actual expense are recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. 34 Our Assumptions Our Black Scholes model estimates the expected value our employees will receive from the options based on a number of assumptions, such as interest rates, employee exercises, our stock price and dividend yield. Our weighted average fair value assumptions include: 2005 2004 2003 2002 Expected life 6 yrs. 6 yrs. 6 yrs. 6 yrs. Risk free interest rate 3.8% 3.3% 3.1% 4.4% Expected volatility 22% 26% 27% 27% Expected dividend yield 1.8% 1.8% 1.15% 1.14% The expected life is a significant assumption as it determines the period for which the risk free interest rate, volatility and dividend yield must be applied. The expected life is the period over which our employee groups are expected to hold their options. It is based on our historical experience with similar grants. The risk free interest rate is based on the expected U.S. Treasury rate over the expected life. Volatility reflects movements in our stock price over the most recent historical period equivalent to the expected life. Dividend yield is estimated over the expected life based on our stated dividend policy and forecasts of net income, share repurchases and stock price. 2005 Estimated Expense and Sensitivity of Assumptions Our stock based compensation expense, including RSUs, is as follows: Estimated 2005 2004 2003 Stock based compensation expense $ 320 $ 368 $ 407 If we assumed a 100 basis point change in the following assumptions, our estimated 2005 stock based compensation expense would increase/(decrease) as follows: 100 Basis Point Increase 100 Basis Point Decrease Risk free interest rate $4 $(4) Expected volatility $1 $(1) Expected dividend yield $(6) $7 If the expected life were assumed to be one year longer, our estimated 2005 stock based compensation expense would increase by $9 million. If the expected life were assumed to be one year shorter, our estimated 2005 stock based compensation expense would decrease by $6 million. As noted, changing the assumed expected life impacts all of the Black Scholes valuation assumptions as the risk free interest rate, expected volatility and expected dividend yield are estimated over the expected life. 35 Pension and Retiree Medical Plans Our pension plans cover full time employees in the U.S. and certain international employees. Benefits are determined based on either years of service or a combination of years of service and earnings. U.S. retirees are also eligible for medical and life insurance benefits (retiree medical) if they meet age and service requirements. Generally, our share of retiree medical costs is capped at specified dollar amounts, which vary based upon years of service, with retirees contributing the remainder up to the total cost. Our Assumptions The pension or retiree medical benefits expected to be paid are expensed over the employees expected service. We must make many assumptions to measure our annual pension and retiree medical expense, including: the interest rate used to determine the present value of liabilities (discount rate); the expected return on assets in our funded plans; the rate of salary increases for plans where benefits are based on earnings; certain employee related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality; and for retiree medical benefits, health care cost trend rates. The assumptions, assets and liabilities used to measure our annual pension and retiree medical expense are determined as of September 30 (measurement date) and all plan assets and liabilities are reported as of that date. Our assumptions reflect our historical experience and managements best judgment regarding future expectations. Some of these assumptions require significant management judgment and could have a material impact on the measurement of our pension and retiree medical benefit expense and obligation. However, any impact from the changes in retiree medical assumptions would be mitigated by the cap on these benefits. Since pension and retiree medical liabilities are measured on a discounted basis, the discount rate is a significant assumption. At each measurement date, the discount rate is based on interest rates for high quality, long term corporate debt securities with maturities comparable to our liabilities. The expected return on pension plan assets is based on our historical experience, our pension plan investment strategy, and our expectations for long term rates of return. Our pension plan investment strategy is reviewed annually and is based upon plan liabilities, an evaluation of market conditions, tolerance for risk and cash requirements for benefit payments. We use a third party consultant to assist us in determining our investment allocation and modeling our long term rate assumptions. Our current investment allocation target for our U.S. plans is 60% equity securities, with the balance in fixed income securities. Our current assumed rate of return on plan assets is 7.8%, reflecting an estimated long term return of 9.3% from equity securities and an estimated 5.8% from fixed income securities. As permitted by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, plan assets used in determining the expected return component of annual pension expense reflect the difference between the actual and the expected return in any one year over five years. Therefore, it takes five years for the gain or loss from any one year to be fully included in the measurement of plan assets. 36 Other gains and losses resulting from actual experience differing from our assumptions are also determined at each measurement date. If this net accumulated gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of plan assets or liabilities, a portion of the net gain or loss is included in expense for the following year. The cost or benefit of plan changes, such as increasing or decreasing benefits for prior employee service, is included in expense on a straight line basis over the average remaining service period of the employees expected to receive benefits. Weighted average assumptions for pension and retiree medical expense are the following: 2005 2004 2003 Pension Expense discount rate 6.1% 6.1% 6.7% Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.8% 7.8% 8.2% Expected rate of salary increases 4.3% 4.4% 4.4% Retiree medical Expense discount rate 6.1% 6.1% 6.7% Current health care cost trend rate 11.0% 12.0% 10.0% Future Expense Our 2005 pension expense is estimated to be approximately $310 million and retiree medical expense is estimated to be approximately $135 million. These estimates incorporate the 2005 assumptions, as well as the impact of the increased pension plan assets resulting from our discretionary contributions of $400 million in 2004, and the impact of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Medicare Act) as discussed in Note 7. Changes in our 2005 assumptions include updates to our mortality tables, employee turnover assumptions, and retirement age assumptions. These changes result in an increase in our pension experience loss amortization for 2005 of $45 million. In addition, the increase in amortization for 2005 pension expense reflects the absence of asset gain amortization of approximately $50 million in 2004 in accordance with our methodology discussed above. An analysis of the estimated change in pension and retiree medical expense follows: Pension Retiree Medical 2004 expense $ 245 $ 121 Increase in experience loss amortization 100 21 Impact of funding (36 ) Increase in prior service benefit amortization (3 ) (4 ) Other, including impact of 2003 Medicare Act 4 (3 ) 2005 estimated expense $ 310 $ 135 Pension service costs, including the impact of demographic assumption changes on service costs, are reflected in division results, with the impact of changes in discount and 37 asset return rates, gains and losses, and the impact of funding reflected in corporate unallocated. Under this policy, approximately $20 million of the increased pension and retiree medical expense in 2005 will be reflected in corporate unallocated expense. Based on our current assumptions, which reflect our prior experience and current plan provisions, and assuming we are allowed to make annual discretionary contributions of approximately $400 million, we expect our pension expense to increase by approximately $15 million in 2006. In 2007, our pension expense would begin to decrease, with the expense dropping to approximately $220 million by 2010 as unrecognized asset losses are fully amortized. If our assumptions and our plan provisions for retiree medical remain unchanged and our experience mirrors these assumptions, we expect our annual retiree medical expense beyond 2005 to approximate $140 million. Sensitivity of Assumptions A decrease in the discount rate or a decrease in the expected rate of return on assets would increase pension expense. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point change in the discount rate on 2005 pension expense is a change of approximately $32 million. The estimated impact on 2005 pension expense of a 25 basis point change in the expected rate of return on assets is a change of approximately $13 million. See Note 7 regarding the sensitivity of our retiree medical cost assumptions. Future Funding We make contributions to pension trusts maintained to provide plan benefits for certain pension plans. These contributions are made in accordance with applicable tax regulations that provide for current tax deductions for our contributions, and taxation to the employee only upon receipt of plan benefits. Generally, we do not fund our pension plans when our contributions would not be currently deductible or when the employee would be taxed prior to receipt of benefit. Our pension contributions for 2004 were $458 million of which $400 million was discretionary. In 2005, we expect contributions to be about the same with approximately $400 million expected to be discretionary and the remainder satisfying minimum requirements. Our cash payments for retiree medical are estimated to be $85 million in 2005. As our retiree medical plans are not subject to regulatory funding requirements, we fund these plans on a pay as you go basis. For estimated future benefit payments, including our pay as you go payments as well as those from trusts, see Note 7. 38 OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS Items Affecting Comparability The year over year comparisons of our financial results are affected by the following items: 2004 2003 Operating profit Impairment and restructuring charges $ (150 ) $ (147 ) Merger related costs $ (59 ) Net income Impairment and restructuring charges $ (96 ) $ (100 ) Merger related costs $ (42 ) Net tax benefits continuing operations $ 266 $ 109 Tax benefit from discontinued operations $ 38 Net income per common share diluted Impairment and restructuring charges $ (0.06 ) $ (0.06 ) Merger related costs $ (0.02 ) Net tax benefits continuing operations $ 0.15 $ 0.06 Tax benefit from discontinued operations $ 0.02 For the items and accounting changes affecting our 2002 results, see Note 1 and our 2002 Annual Report. Impairment and Restructuring Charges and Merger Related Costs In the fourth quarter of 2004, we incurred restructuring and impairment charges of $150 million in conjunction with the consolidation of FLNAs manufacturing network in connection with its ongoing productivity program. Savings from this productivity program have been and are expected to be used to offset increased marketplace spending. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we incurred a restructuring charge of $147 million in conjunction with the streamlining of our North American divisions and PepsiCo International. Also, during 2003 and in 2002, we incurred costs associated with our merger with The Quaker Oats Company (Quaker). For additional information, see Note 3. Net Tax Benefits Continuing Operations In the fourth quarter of 2004, we recognized $45 million of tax benefits related to the completion of the IRS audit for pre merger Quaker open tax years. In the third quarter of 2004, we recognized $221 million of tax benefits related to a reduction in foreign tax accruals following the resolution of certain open tax issues with foreign tax authorities, and a refund claim related to prior U.S. tax settlements. 39 At the end of 2003, we entered into agreements with the IRS for open tax years through 1997. These agreements resulted in a tax benefit of $109 million. As part of these agreements, we also resolved the treatment of certain other issues related to future tax years. For additional information, see Our Critical Accounting Policies. Tax Benefit from Discontinued Operations In the fourth quarter of 2004, we reached agreement with the IRS for an open issue related to our discontinued restaurant operations which resulted in a tax benefit of $38 million. Results of Continuing Operations Consolidated Review In the discussions of net revenue and operating profit below, effective net pricing reflects the year over year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in different package sizes and in different countries. Servings Since our divisions each use different measures of physical unit volume (i.e., kilos, pounds and case sales), a common servings metric is necessary to reflect our consolidated physical unit volume. Our divisions physical volume measures are converted into servings based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines for single serving sizes of our products. Total servings increased 6% in 2004 compared to 2003 as servings for beverages worldwide grew 7% and servings for snacks worldwide grew over 5%. All of our divisions positively contributed to the total servings growth. Total servings increased 5% in 2003 compared to 2002 primarily due to contributions from PI, PBNA and FLNA. 40 Net Revenue and Operating Profit Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Division net revenues $ 29,261 $ 26,969 $ 24,978 8 % 8 % Divested businesses 2 134 Total net revenue $ 29,261 $ 26,971 $ 25,112 8 % 7 % Division operating profit $ 6,098 $ 5,463 $ 4,934 12 % 11 % Corporate unallocated (689 ) (502 ) (438 ) 38 % 14 % Merger related costs (59 ) (224 ) Impairment and restructuring charges (150 ) (147 ) Divested businesses 26 23 Total operating profit $ 5,259 $ 4,781 $ 4,295 10 % 11 % Division operating profit margin 20.8 % 20.3 % 19.8 % 0.5 0.5 Total operating profit margin 18.0 % 17.7 % 17.1 % 0.3 0.6 2004 Division net revenue increased 8%, primarily due to strong volume gains across all divisions, favorable product mix, primarily at PBNA and PI, and net favorable foreign currency movements. The volume gains contributed over 4 percentage points, the favorable mix contributed almost 2 percentage points, and the net favorable foreign currency contributed almost 2 percentage points to division net revenue growth. Total operating profit increased 10% and margin increased 0.3 percentage points. Division operating profit increased 12% and division margin increased 0.5 percentage points. These gains reflect leverage from the revenue growth, partially offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses, primarily corporate unallocated expenses. In addition, total operating profit growth reflects the absence of merger related costs in 2004. 2003 Net revenue increased 7%. Division net revenue increased 8%, primarily due to the strong volume which contributed 4 percentage points of growth. Favorable product and country mix, as well as North American snack and concentrate price increases, contributed over 2 percentage points to the growth. Favorable foreign currency movements contributed nearly 1 percentage point to the net revenue growth. 41 Total operating profit increased 11% and margin increased 0.6 percentage points. Division operating profit increased 11% and division margin increased 0.5 percentage points. These gains were driven by the strong volume and higher effective net pricing. Cost of sales increased 8%, reflecting increased commodity costs, particularly corn oil and natural gas. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 6% driven by higher selling costs primarily reflecting the increased volume and increased fuel costs. Unfavorable foreign currency reduced operating profit growth by nearly 1 percentage point. In addition, total operating profit reflects the benefit from lower merger related costs, offset by the 2003 impairment and restructuring charges of $147 million. Corporate Unallocated Expenses Corporate unallocated expenses include the costs of our corporate headquarters, centrally managed initiatives such as our BPT initiative, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, profit in inventory elimination adjustments for our noncontrolled bottling affiliates, and certain other items. In 2004, corporate unallocated expenses increased 38%. Higher employee related costs contributed 18 percentage points of the increase, an accrual recognized in the fourth quarter for the settlement of a contractual dispute with a former business partner represented 10 percentage points of the increase, and higher costs related to our BPT initiative contributed 4 percentage points of the increase. Corporate departmental expenses increased 2% compared to prior year. In 2003, corporate unallocated expenses increased 14% primarily reflecting our 2003 investment in our BPT initiative. Higher employee related costs, including deferred compensation, and corporate departmental costs also contributed to the increase. The increase in the deferred compensation costs is partially offset by the decrease in net interest expense. Corporate departmental expenses increased 3% reflecting staffing and other costs related to our health and wellness initiatives. 42 Other Consolidated Results Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Bottling equity income $ 380 $ 323 $ 280 18 % 16 % Interest expense, net $ (93 ) $ (112 ) $ (142 ) (17 )% (21 )% Annual tax rate 24.7 % 28.5 % 32.3 % Net income continuing operations $ 4,174 $ 3,568 $ 3,000 17 % 19 % Net income per common share continuing operations diluted $ 2.41 $ 2.05 $ 1.68 18 % 22 % Bottling equity income includes our share of the net income or loss of our noncontrolled bottling affiliates as described in Our Customers. Our interest in these bottling investments may change from time to time. Any gains or losses from these changes, as well as other transactions related to our bottling investments, are also included on a pre tax basis. Over time, we expect to be selling shares of PBG stock to trim our ownership to the level at the time of PBGs initial public offering. Our ownership has increased as a result of PBGs share repurchase program. During 2005, we intend to sell up to 7.5 million shares of PBG stock. The resulting lower ownership percentage will reduce the equity income from PBG that we recognize. 2004 Bottling equity income increased 18%, primarily reflecting increased earnings from our anchor bottlers and favorable comparisons from international bottling investments, primarily as a result of the nationwide strike in Venezuela in early 2003. Net interest expense declined 17% primarily due to favorable interest rates and higher average cash balances, partially offset by higher average debt balances and lower gains in the market value of investments used to economically hedge a portion of our deferred compensation liability. The offsetting increase in deferred compensation costs is reported in corporate unallocated expenses within selling, general and administrative expenses. The annual tax rate decreased 3.8 percentage points compared to the prior year, primarily as a result of tax benefits from the resolution of open items with tax authorities in both years, as discussed in Items Affecting Comparability. The tax benefits reduced our tax rate by 2.6 percentage points. Increased benefit from concentrate operations and favorable changes arising from agreements with the Internal Revenue Service in the fourth quarter of 2003 also contributed to the decline in rate. 43 Net income from continuing operations increased 17% and the related net income per common share from continuing operations increased 18%. These increases primarily reflect the solid operating profit growth and our lower annual tax rate. The absence of merger related costs in 2004 and increased bottling equity income also contributed to the growth. 2003 Bottling equity income increased 16%. This increase primarily reflects a favorable comparison to the impairment charge taken in 2002 on a Latin American bottling investment, and increased earnings from PBG and PAS in 2003. Net interest expense declined 21% primarily due to a gain of $22 million on investments used to economically hedge a portion of our deferred compensation liability versus losses of $18 million in the prior year. This net gain was partially offset by lower investment rates. The annual tax rate decreased 3.8 percentage points compared to the prior year. At the end of 2003, we entered into agreements with the IRS. These agreements resulted in a tax benefit of $109 million, reducing our tax rate by over 2 percentage points. Lower taxes on foreign results, including the impact of our new concentrate operations, also reduced our tax rate by nearly 2 percentage points. The impact of lower nondeductible merger related costs contributed 0.9 percentage points to the decrease. Net income increased 19% and the related net income per common share increased 22%. These increases primarily reflect the solid operating profit growth, our lower annual tax rate and increased bottling equity income. The benefit of lower merger related costs was largely offset by the impairment and restructuring charges. Net income per common share also reflects the benefit of a reduction in average shares outstanding primarily as a result of share repurchase activity. 44 Results of Continuing Operations Division Review The results and discussions below are based on how our Chief Executive Officer monitors the performance of our divisions. Prior year amounts exclude the results of divested businesses. For additional information on these items and our divisions, see Note 1. FLNA PBNA PI QFNA Divested Businesses Total Net Revenue, 2004 $ 9,560 $ 8,313 $ 9,862 $ 1,526 $ 29,261 Net Revenue, 2003 $ 9,091 $ 7,733 $ 8,678 $ 1,467 $ 2 $ 26,971 % Impact of: Volume 3 % 3 % 7 % 3 % 4 % Effective net pricing 2 4 2 2 Foreign exchange 4 1 2 Acquisition/divestitures 1 % Change 5 % 7 % 14 % 4 % N/A 8 % FLNA PBNA PI QFNA Divested Businesses Total Net Revenue, 2003 $ 9,091 $ 7,733 $ 8,678 $ 1,467 $ 2 $ 26,971 Net Revenue, 2002 $ 8,565 $ 7,200 $ 7,749 $ 1,464 $ 134 $ 25,112 % Impact of: Volume 4 % 3 % 7 % 4 % Effective net pricing 2 4 2 2 Foreign exchange 1 1 1 1 1 Acquisition/divestitures 2 % Change 6 % 7 % 12 % N/A 7 % Frito Lay North America % Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Net revenue $ 9,560 $ 9,091 $ 8,565 5 6 Operating profit $ 2,389 $ 2,242 $ 2,081 7 8 2004 Net revenue grew 5% reflecting volume growth of 3% and positive effective net pricing due to salty snack pricing actions and favorable mix. Pound volume grew primarily due to new products, single digit growth in Lays Classic potato chips, strong double digit growth in Variety Pack, and mid single digit growth in Tostitos and Fried Cheetos. Lays Stax and Doritos Rollitos led the new product growth. These gains were partially offset by single digit declines in Doritos and Fritos, and double digit declines in Rold Gold and Quaker Toastables. 45 Operating profit grew nearly 7% reflecting the positive pricing actions and volume growth. Higher commodity costs, driven by corn oil and energy costs were largely offset by cost leverage generated from ongoing productivity initiatives. On September 1, 2004, we introduced our new Smart Spot program which helps consumers identify products in our portfolio that can contribute to a healthier lifestyle. Products qualifying for our new Smart Spot program represented approximately 10% of 2004 FLNA net revenue. These products experienced high single digit revenue growth and the balance of the portfolio had mid single digit revenue growth. See our website at www.smartspot.com for additional information on our new Smart Spot program. 2003 Net revenue growth of 6% reflects volume growth of 4% and positive effective net pricing. Pound volume grew primarily due to new products, double digit growth in Cheetos, Munchies snack mix and Quaker Chewy Granola bars, and single digit growth in branded dips and Doritos. Quaker Toastables, Lays Stax and the Natural snack line led the new product growth. These gains were partially offset by double digit declines in Rold Gold, Lays Bistro, and Go Snacks. Modest pricing actions on certain salty snacks and favorable mix led the positive effective net pricing. These gains were partially offset by higher trade spending on product innovation. Operating profit growth of 8% reflects the volume growth and positive effective net pricing. These gains were partially offset by increased commodity costs, particularly corn oil and natural gas. Increased commodity costs reduced operating profit growth by 3 percentage points, more than offsetting the cost leverage generated from productivity initiatives. Pe psiCo Beverages North America % Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Net revenue $ 8,313 $ 7,733 $ 7,200 7 7 Operating profit $ 1,911 $ 1,690 $ 1,485 13 14 2004 Net revenue increased 7% and volume increased 3%. The volume increase reflects non carbonated beverage growth of 10% and a slight increase in carbonated soft drinks (CSDs). The non carbonated beverage growth was fueled by double digit growth in Gatorade, Aquafina and Propel, as well as the introduction of bottler distributed Tropicana juice drinks. Tropicana Pure Premium increased slightly for the year. The carbonated soft drink performance reflects a low single digit increase in Trademark Mountain Dew and a slight increase in Trademark Sierra Mist, offset by a slight decline in Trademark Pepsi. Across the trademarks, high single digit diet CSD growth was 46 substantially offset by a low single digit decline in regular CSDs. The increase in Trademark Mountain Dew reflects growth in both Diet and regular Mountain Dew and the limited time only offering of Mountain Dew Pitch Black, substantially offset by declines in both Mountain Dew Code Red and LiveWire. The performance of Trademark Pepsi reflects declines in regular Pepsi, Pepsi Twist and Pepsi Blue, mostly offset by increases in Diet Pepsi and the introduction of Pepsi Edge. Favorable product mix contributed 3 percentage points to net revenue growth, primarily reflecting a migration to non carbonated beverages. Additionally, concentrate and fountain price increases taken in the first quarter contributed 1 percentage point to net revenue growth. Operating profit increased 13% reflecting the net revenue growth, partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative costs, as well as costs related to marketplace initiatives. Products qualifying for our new Smart Spot program represented over 60% of net revenue. These products experienced high single digit revenue growth, and the balance of the portfolio had mid single digit revenue growth. 2003 Net revenue increased 7% on volume growth of 3%. The volume growth reflects non carbonated growth of 8% and carbonated beverage growth of 1.5%. Double digit growth in Gatorade, Aquafina and Propel drove the non carbonated portfolio. Tropicana chilled products growth was low single digit. The carbonated beverage performance reflects the national launch of Sierra Mist and high single digit growth in diet carbonated beverages, primarily Diet Pepsi. Declines in trademark Pepsi, excluding diet, partially offset this carbonated beverage growth. Higher effective net pricing contributed 4 percentage points to the net revenue growth. The higher effective net pricing reflects a favorable product mix shift to the higher priced non carbonated beverages, and fountain and concentrate price increases, partially offset by increased promotional spending. The price increases contributed 1 percentage point to the net revenue growth. Operating profit increased 14 percentage points reflecting the higher effective net pricing, volume gains and purchasing efficiencies. These gains were partially offset by increased advertising and marketing expenses. The higher effective net pricing contributed 9 percentage points to the operating profit growth with product mix contributing 7 percentage points. 47 PepsiCo International % Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Net revenue $ 9,862 $ 8,678 $ 7,749 14 12 Operating profit $ 1,323 $ 1,061 $ 910 25 17 2004 International snacks volume grew 8%, comprised of 7% in our Latin America region, 8% in our Europe, Middle East & Africa region and 14% in our Asia Pacific region. These gains were driven by high single digit growth at Sabritas in Mexico, strong double digit growth in India, low single digit growth at Gamesa in Mexico coupled with double digit growth in Egypt, Venezuela, Turkey and Brazil. Beverage volume grew 12%, comprised of 14% in our Europe, Middle East & Africa region, 15% in our Asia Pacific region and 8% in our Latin America region. Broad based increases were led by double digit growth in the Middle East and China, high single digit growth in Mexico and double digit growth in India, Germany, Russia and Venezuela. Favorable comparisons as a result of the 2003 national strike in Venezuela and the German deposit law impact contributed to the growth in Venezuela and Germany. Both carbonated soft drinks and non carbonated beverages grew at double digit rates. Net revenue grew 14% driven by the broad based volume growth and favorable mix. Foreign currency impact contributed 4 percentage points of growth driven by the favorable British pound and euro, partially offset by the unfavorable Mexican peso. Acquisitions contributed less than 1 percentage point. Operating profit grew 25% driven largely by the volume and favorable mix. The favorable comparison of certain reserve actions taken in 2003 on potentially unrecoverable beverage assets contributed 2 percentage points of growth. Foreign currency impact contributed almost 3 percentage points of growth driven by the favorable British pound and euro, partially offset by the unfavorable Mexican peso. 2003 International snacks volume grew 6%, comprised of 3% in our Latin America region, 10% in our Europe, Middle East and Africa region and 16% in our Asia Pacific region. These gains were driven by double digit growth from Walkers in the United Kingdom, India, Turkey and Russia, and low single digit growth at Sabritas in Mexico. Mid single digit sweet growth was led by Gamesa in Mexico. Beverage volume grew 8%, comprised of 8% in our Latin America region, 6% in our Europe, Middle East and Africa region and 11% in our Asia Pacific region. Broad based increases were led by double digit growth in the Middle East, China, Brazil, India, Russia 48 and Thailand and mid single digit growth in Mexico. Volume gains in India driven by competitive pricing actions were offset by double digit declines in Germany due to the new one way bottle deposit requirement imposed by the government. Net revenue grew 12% driven by higher volume across most markets. Acquisitions contributed nearly 2 percentage points of growth and favorable foreign currency contributed 1 percentage point as the favorable euro and British pound substantially offset the unfavorable Mexican peso. These gains were partially offset by the impact of the German one way beverage deposits and competitive beverage pricing actions in India. Operating profit grew 17% largely due to the drivers of net revenue growth. Acquisitions contributed 2 percentage points of growth. Unfavorable foreign currency reduced operating profit by 6 percentage points due to the impact of the peso on our Mexican snack businesses. In addition, operating profits were reduced by 2 percentage points due to reserve actions taken on potentially unrecoverable beverage assets. Quaker Foods North America % Change 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 Net revenue $ 1,526 $ 1,467 $ 1,464 4 Operating profit $ 475 $ 470 $ 458 1 3 2004 Net revenue increased 4% and volume increased 3%. The volume increase reflects high single digit growth in Oatmeal and double digit growth in Life cereal, partially offset by a mid single digit decline in Capn Crunch cereal. The Life cereal growth was led by the introduction of Honey Graham Life. Favorable product mix, reflecting growth in higher revenue per pound brands, was offset by promotional spending behind new products. Favorable Canadian exchange rates contributed 1 percentage point to net revenue growth. Operating profit increased 1% reflecting the net revenue growth, substantially offset by an unfavorable cost of sales comparison and higher advertising and marketing costs. Products qualifying for our new Smart Spot program represented approximately half of net revenue and had high single digit revenue growth. The balance of the portfolio was flat. 2003 Net revenue and volume were flat compared to prior year as the national launch of Breakfast Squares and Canadian Oatmeal to Go growth were offset by declines in Rice and Pasta Roni side dishes and in our hot cereal business. A favorable Canadian exchange rate, which contributed 1 percentage point to net revenue growth, and ready to eat 49 cereal price increases, were offset by unfavorable product mix and increased promotional spending related to the Breakfast Squares launch. Operating profit grew 3% compared to prior year. Lower advertising and marketing spending contributed over 4 percentage points to operating profit growth, while favorable cost of sales contributed almost 5 percentage points. These gains were partially offset by an unfavorable product mix, which reduced operating profit growth by 7 percentage points. The unfavorable product mix reflects declines in higher margin products. Our Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Our strong cash generating capability and financial condition give us ready access to capital markets throughout the world. Our principal source of liquidity is our operating cash flow. This cash generating capability is one of our fundamental strengths and provides us with substantial financial flexibility in meeting operating, investing and financing needs. In addition, we have revolving credit facilities that are further discussed in Note 9. Our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality. Working capital needs are impacted by weekly sales, which are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday related sales patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. a) Operating activities b) Short term borrowings c) Stock option exercises d) Share repurchases e) Capital spending f) Dividends g) Short term investments h) Divestitures i) Acquisitions k) Long term debt m) Other, net Operating Activities In 2004, our operations provided $5.1 billion of cash, primarily reflecting our solid business results, partially offset by net tax payments of $1.8 billion and pension plan contributions of $458 million of which $400 million was discretionary. In 2003, our operations provided $4.3 billion of cash reflecting our solid business results, partially offset by net tax payments of $1.5 billion and pension plan contributions of $535 million of which $500 million was discretionary. The year over year increase in cash flows from operations is primarily attributable to our solid business results and effective working capital management, partially offset by the higher tax payments in 2004. 50 Investing Activities In 2004, we used $2.3 billion for investing, primarily reflecting capital spending of $1.4 billion and short term investments of almost $1.0 billion. In 2003, we used $2.3 billion for investing, primarily reflecting capital spending of $1.3 billion and short term investments of nearly $1.0 billion. We expect capital spending to continue at a rate of approximately 5% of net revenue in 2005. In December 2004, we announced that we would acquire General Mills, Inc.s 40.5% ownership interest in Snack Ventures Europe (SVE) for $750 million. We expect the transaction to be completed in early 2005. This transaction will be funded with existing international cash. In addition, in 2005, we will generate cash from the expected sale of up to 7.5 million shares of PBG stock. Financing Activities In 2004, we used $2.3 billion for financing, primarily reflecting share repurchases at a cost of $3.0 billion and dividend payments of $1.3 billion, partially offset by net issuances of short term borrowings of $1.1 billion and proceeds from exercises of stock options of nearly $1.0 billion. This compares to $2.9 billion used for financing in 2003, primarily reflecting share repurchases at a cost of $1.9 billion and dividend payments of $1.1 billion. In the second quarter of 2004, our Board of Directors authorized a new $7.0 billion share repurchase program. Since inception of the new program, we have repurchased $2.1 billion of shares, leaving $4.9 billion of remaining authorization. We target an annual dividend payout of approximately 45% of prior years net income from continuing operations. Each spring we review our capital structure with our Board, including our dividend policy and share repurchase activity. Management Operating Cash Flow We focus on management operating cash flow as a key element in achieving maximum shareholder value, and it is the primary measure we use to monitor cash flow performance. However, it is not a measure provided by accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating activities. The table below reconciles the net cash provided by operating activities as reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to our management operating cash flow. 2004 2003 2002 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 5,054 $ 4,328 $ 4,627 Capital spending (1,387 ) (1,345 ) (1,437 ) Sales of property, plant and equipment 38 49 89 Management operating cash flow $ 3,705 $ 3,032 $ 3,279 51 Management operating cash flow was used primarily to repurchase shares and pay dividends. We expect management operating cash flow in 2005 to exceed $4.1 billion reflecting our underlying business growth. We expect to continue to return approximately all of our management operating cash flow to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, and expect our share repurchases to range from $2.5 billion to $3.0 billion in 2005. However, see Our Business Risks for certain factors that may impact our operating cash flows. Credit Ratings Our debt ratings of Aa3 from Moodys and A+ from Standard & Poors contribute to our ability to access global capital markets. We have maintained strong investment grade ratings for over a decade. Moodys rating reflects an upgrade from A1 to Aa3 in 2004 due to the strength of our balance sheet and cash flows. Each rating is considered strong investment grade and is in the first quartile of their respective ranking systems. These ratings also reflect the impact of our anchor bottlers cash flows and debt. As discussed in Note 5, we are evaluating our options with respect to repatriating undistributed international earnings under the AJCA. If we decide to repatriate funds in excess of available international cash, we would be required to borrow funds. We would not expect this activity to adversely impact our credit ratings. Credit Facilities and Long Term Contractual Commitments See Note 9 for a description of our credit facilities and long term contractual commitments. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements It is not our business practice to enter into off balance sheet arrangements, other than in the normal course of business, nor is it our policy to issue guarantees to our bottlers, noncontrolled affiliates or third parties. However, certain guarantees were necessary to facilitate the separation of our bottling and restaurant operations from us. As of year end 2004, we believe it is remote that these guarantees would require any cash payment. See Note 9 for a description of our off balance sheet arrangements. 52 Financial Position Significant changes in our consolidated balance sheet from December 27, 2003 to December 25, 2004 not discussed above were as follows: Investments in noncontrolled affiliates increased $364 million primarily due to higher equity income, partially offset by dividends received. Income taxes payable decreased $512 million primarily reflecting net tax payments of $1.8 billion, partially offset by our current provision. The payments include $760 million paid in the second quarter as a result of our 2003 settlement with the IRS. Future Outlook Our long term financial targets are mid single digit volume and net revenue growth, and low double digit EPS growth. The results of any one year may differ from our long term targets. Our 2005 results will include the results of a 53rd week. 53 OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS Consolidated Statement of Income PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries Fiscal years ended December 25, 2004, December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002 (in millions except per share amounts) 2004 2003 2002 Net Revenue $ 29,261 $ 26,971 $ 25,112 Cost of sales 13,406 12,379 11,497 Selling, general and administrative expenses 10,299 9,460 8,958 Amortization of intangible assets 147 145 138 Impairment and restructuring charges 150 147 Merger related costs 59 224 Operating Profit 5,259 4,781 4,295 Bottling equity income 380 323 280 Interest expense (167 ) (163 ) (178 ) Interest income 74 51 36 Income from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes 5,546 4,992 4,433 Provision for Income Taxes 1,372 1,424 1,433 Income from Continuing Operations 4,174 3,568 3,000 Tax Benefit from Discontinued Operations 38 Net Income $ 4,212 $ 3,568 $ 3,000 Net Income per Common Share Basic Continuing operations $ 2.45 $ 2.07 $ 1.69 Discontinued operations 0.02 Total $ 2.47 $ 2.07 $ 1.69 Net Income per Common Share Diluted Continuing operations $ 2.41 $ 2.05 $ 1.68 Discontinued operations 0.02 Total $ 2.44 * $ 2.05 $ 1.68 * Based on unrounded amounts. See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 54 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries Fiscal years ended December 25, 2004, December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002 (in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Operating Activities Net income $ 4,212 $ 3,568 $ 3,000 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities Depreciation and amortization 1,264 1,221 1,112 Stock based compensation expense 368 407 435 Merger related costs 59 224 Impairment and restructuring charges 150 147 Cash payments for merger related costs and restructuring charges (92 ) (109 ) (123 ) Tax benefit from discontinued operations (38 ) Pension plan contributions (458 ) (535 ) (820 ) Bottling equity income, net of dividends (297 ) (276 ) (222 ) Deferred income taxes 17 (323 ) 174 Other non cash charges and credits, net 341 415 263 Changes in operating working capital, excluding effects of acquisitions and dispositions Accounts and notes receivable (130 ) (220 ) (260 ) Inventories (100 ) (49 ) (53 ) Prepaid expenses and other current assets (31 ) 23 (78 ) Accounts payable and other current liabilities 216 (11 ) 426 Income taxes payable (268 ) 182 270 Net change in operating working capital (313 ) (75 ) 305 Other (100 ) (171 ) 279 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 5,054 4,328 4,627 Investing Activities Capital spending (1,387 ) (1,345 ) (1,437 ) Sales of property, plant and equipment 38 49 89 Acquisitions and investments in noncontrolled affiliates (64 ) (71 ) (351 ) Divestitures 52 46 376 Short term investments, by original maturity More than three months purchases (44 ) (38 ) (62 ) More than three months maturities 38 28 122 Three months or less, net (963 ) (940 ) 697 Snack Ventures Europe consolidation 39 Net Cash Used for Investing Activities (2,330 ) (2,271 ) (527 ) (Continued on following page) 55 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (continued) PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries Fiscal years ended December 25, 2004, December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002 (in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Financing Activities Proceeds from issuances of long term debt 504 52 11 Payments of long term debt (512 ) (641 ) (353 ) Short term borrowings, by original maturity More than three months proceeds 153 88 707 More than three months payments (160 ) (115 ) (809 ) Three months or less, net 1,119 40 40 Cash dividends paid (1,329 ) (1,070 ) (1,041 ) Share repurchases common (3,028 ) (1,929 ) (2,158 ) Share repurchases preferred (27 ) (16 ) (32 ) Proceeds from exercises of stock options 965 689 456 Net Cash Used for Financing Activities (2,315 ) (2,902 ) (3,179 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 51 27 34 Net Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 460 (818 ) 955 Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year 820 1,638 683 Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year $ 1,280 $ 820 $ 1,638 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 56 Consolidated Balance Sheet PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries December 25, 2004 and December 27, 2003 (in millions except per share amounts) 2004 2003 ASSETS Current Assets Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,280 $ 820 Short term investments 2,165 1,181 3,445 2,001 Accounts and notes receivable, net 2,999 2,830 Inventories 1,541 1,412 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 654 687 Total Current Assets 8,639 6,930 Property, Plant and Equipment, net 8,149 7,828 Amortizable Intangible Assets, net 598 718 Goodwill 3,909 3,796 Other nonamortizable intangible assets 933 869 Nonamortizable Intangible Assets 4,842 4,665 Investments in Noncontrolled Affiliates 3,284 2,920 Other Assets 2,475 2,266 Total Assets $ 27,987 $ 25,327 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Current Liabilities Short term obligations $ 1,054 $ 591 Accounts payable and other current liabilities 5,599 5,213 Income taxes payable 99 611 Total Current Liabilities 6,752 6,415 Long Term Debt Obligations 2,397 1,702 Other Liabilities 4,099 4,075 Deferred Income Taxes 1,216 1,261 Total Liabilities 14,464 13,453 Preferred Stock, no par value 41 41 Repurchased Preferred Stock (90 ) (63 ) Common Shareholders Equity Common stock, par value 1 2/3 per share (issued 1,782 shares) 30 30 Capital in excess of par value 618 548 Retained earnings 18,730 15,961 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (886 ) (1,267 ) 18,492 15,272 Less: repurchased common stock, at cost (103 and 77 shares, respectively) (4,920 ) (3,376 ) Total Common Shareholders Equity 13,572 11,896 Total Liabilities and Shareholders Equity $ 27,987 $ 25,327 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 57 Consolidated Statement of Common Shareholders Equity PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries Fiscal years ended December 25, 2004, December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002 (in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount Common Stock 1,782 $ 30 1,782 $ 30 1,782 $ 30 Capital in Excess of Par Value Balance, beginning of year 548 207 115 Stock based compensation expense 368 407 435 Stock option exercises (a) (298 ) (66 ) (339 ) Other (4 ) Balance, end of year 618 548 207 Retained Earnings Balance, beginning of year 15,961 13,489 11,535 Net income (b) 4,212 3,568 3,000 Cash dividends declared common (1,438 ) (1,082 ) (1,042 ) Cash dividends declared preferred Cash dividends declared RSUs (3(2 )) (3 ) (4 ) Other (11 ) Balance, end of year 18,730 15,961 13,489 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Balance, beginning of year (1,267 ) (1,672 ) (1,646 ) Currency translation adjustment (b) 401 410 56 Cash flow hedges, net of tax (b) (7 ) (12 ) 18 Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax (b) (19 ) 7 (99 ) Other (b) 6 (1 ) Balance, end of year (886 ) (1,267 ) (1,672 ) Repurchased Common Stock Balance, beginning of year (77 ) (3,376 ) (60 ) (2,524 ) (26 ) (1,268 ) Share repurchases (58 ) (2,994 ) (43 ) (1,946 ) (53 ) (2,192 ) Stock option exercises 32 1,434 26 1,096 19 931 Other 16 (2 ) 5 Balance, end of year (103 ) (4,920 ) (77 ) (3,376 ) (60 ) (2,524 ) Total Common Shareholders Equity $ 13,572 $ 11,896 $ 9,530 (a) Includes total tax benefit of $183 million in 2004, $340 million in 2003 and $136 million in 2002. (b) Combined, these amounts represent total comprehensive income of $4,593 million in 2004, $3,973 million in 2003 and $2,974 million in 2002. See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 58 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions Basis of Presentation Our financial statements include the consolidated accounts of PepsiCo, Inc. and the affiliates that we control. In addition, we include our share of the results of certain other affiliates based on our economic ownership interest. We do not control these other affiliates, as our ownership in these other affiliates is generally less than 50%. Our share of the net income of noncontrolled bottling affiliates is reported in our income statement as bottling equity income. See Note 8 for additional information on our noncontrolled bottling affiliates. Our share of other noncontrolled affiliates is included in division operating profit. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Impairment and restructuring charges and merger related costs (described in Note 3) and net tax benefits from continuing and discontinued operations (described in Note 5) affect the comparability of our consolidated results. See Our Divisions below and for additional unaudited information on these items, see Items Affecting Comparability in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Tabular dollars are in millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts reflect common per share amounts, assume dilution unless noted, and are based on unrounded amounts. Certain reclassifications were made to prior year amounts to conform to the 2004 presentation. Our Divisions We manufacture or use contract manufacturers, market and sell a variety of salty, sweet and grain based snacks, carbonated and non carbonated beverages, and foods through our North American and international business divisions. Our North American divisions include the United States and Canada. The accounting policies for the divisions are the same as those described in Note 2, except for certain allocation methodologies for stock based compensation expense and pension and retiree medical expense as described in the unaudited information in Our Critical Accounting Policies. Division results are based on how our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer manages our divisions. Division results exclude significant restructuring and impairment charges, merger related costs and divested businesses. For additional unaudited information on our divisions, see Our Operations in Managements Discussion and Analysis. 59 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 Net Revenue Operating Profit FLNA $ 9,560 $ 9,091 $ 8,565 $ 2,389 $ 2,242 $ 2,081 PBNA 8,313 7,733 7,200 1,911 1,690 1,485 PI 9,862 8,678 7,749 1,323 1,061 910 QFNA 1,526 1,467 1,464 475 470 458 Total division 29,261 26,969 24,978 6,098 5,463 4,934 Divested businesses 2 134 26 23 Corporate (689 ) (502 ) (438 ) 29,261 26,971 25,112 5,409 4,987 4,519 Impairment and restructuring charges (150 ) (147 ) Merger related costs (59 ) (224 ) Total $ 29,261 $ 26,971 $ 25,112 $ 5,259 $ 4,781 $ 4,295 Divested Businesses During 2003, we sold our Quaker Foods North America Mission pasta business. During 2002, we sold our Quaker Foods North America bagged cereal business and our PepsiCo International food businesses in Colombia and Venezuela. The results of these businesses are reported as divested businesses. Corporate Corporate includes costs of our corporate headquarters, centrally managed initiatives, such as our BPT initiative, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, foreign exchange 60 transaction gains and losses, profit in inventory elimination adjustments for our noncontrolled bottling affiliates and certain other items. Impairment and Restructuring Charges and Merger Related Costs See Note 3. Other Division Information 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 Total Assets Capital Spending FLNA $ 5,476 $ 5,332 $ 5,099 $ 469 $ 426 $ 523 PBNA 6,048 5,856 5,691 265 332 367 PI 8,921 8,109 7,275 537 521 473 QFNA 978 995 1,001 33 32 50 Total division 21,423 20,292 19,066 1,304 1,311 1,413 Corporate (a) 3,569 2,384 2,072 83 34 24 Investments in bottling affiliates 2,995 2,651 2,336 $ 27,987 $ 25,327 $ 23,474 $ 1,387 $ 1,345 $ 1,437 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 Amortization ofIntangibleAssets Depreciation and Other Amortization FLNA $ 3 $ 3 $ 3 $ 420 $ 416 $ 399 PBNA 75 75 70 258 245 206 PI 68 66 64 382 350 300 QFNA 1 1 1 36 36 37 Total division 147 145 138 1,096 1,047 942 Divested businesses 3 Corporate 21 29 29 $ 147 $ 145 $ 138 $ 1,117 $ 1,076 $ 974 61 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002  Net Revenue(b)  Long Lived Assets(c) U.S. $ 18,329 $ 17,377 $ 16,588 $ 10,212 $ 9,907 $ 9,767 Mexico 2,724 2,642 2,686 878 869 764 United Kingdom 1,692 1,510 1,106 1,896 1,724 1,529 Canada 1,309 1,147 967 548 508 410 All other countries 5,207 4,295 3,765 3,339 3,123 2,750 $ 29,261 $ 26,971 $ 25,112 $ 16,873 $ 16,131 $ 15,220 (a) Corporate assets consist principally of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, primarily held outside the U.S., and property, plant and equipment. (b) Represents net revenue from businesses operating in these countries. (c) Long lived assets represent net property, plant and equipment, nonamortizable and net amortizable intangible assets and investments in noncontrolled affiliates. These assets are reported in the country where they are primarily used. Note 2 Our Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue upon shipment or delivery to our customers in accordance with written sales terms that do not allow for a right of return. However, our policy for direct store delivery (DSD) and chilled products is to remove and replace damaged and out of date products from store shelves to ensure that our consumers receive the product quality and freshness that they expect. Similarly, our policy for warehouse distributed products is to replace damaged and out of date products. Based on our historical experience with this practice, we have reserved for anticipated damaged and out of date products. For additional unaudited information on our revenue recognition and related policies, including our policy on bad debts, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. We are exposed to concentration of credit risk by our customers, Wal Mart and PBG. Wal Mart represents approximately 11% of our net revenue and PBG represents approximately 10%. We have not experienced credit issues with these customers. 62 Sales Incentives and Other Marketplace Spending We offer sales incentives through various programs to our customers and consumers. Sales incentives are accounted for as a reduction of revenue and totaled $6.6 billion in 2004, $6.0 billion in 2003 and $5.5 billion in 2002. Most of these incentive arrangements have terms of no more than one year. However, we have arrangements, such as fountain pouring rights, which may extend up to 15 years. Costs incurred to obtain these arrangements are expensed over the contract period and the remaining balance of $337 million at December 25, 2004 and $359 million at December 27, 2003 is included in other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. For additional unaudited information on our sales incentives, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Other marketplace spending includes the costs of advertising and other marketing activities and is reported as selling, general and administrative expenses. Advertising expenses were $1.7 billion in 2004, $1.6 billion in 2003 and $1.5 billion in 2002. Deferred advertising costs are not expensed until the year first used and consist of: media and personal service prepayments, promotional materials in inventory, and production costs of future media advertising. Deferred advertising costs of $137 million at year end 2004 and 2003 are classified as prepaid expenses in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Distribution Costs Distribution costs, including the costs of shipping and handling activities, are reported as selling, general and administrative expenses for DSD distribution systems. For our other distribution systems, these costs are reported in cost of sales. Shipping and handling expenses classified as selling, general and administrative expenses were $3.3 billion in 2004, $3.0 billion in 2003 and $2.8 billion in 2002. Cash Equivalents Cash equivalents are investments with original maturities of three months or less. Commitments and Contingencies We are subject to various claims and contingencies related to lawsuits, taxes and environmental matters, as well as commitments under contractual and other commercial obligations. We recognize liabilities for contingencies and commitments when a loss is probable and estimable. For additional information on our commitments, see Note 9. 63 Other Significant Accounting Policies Our other significant accounting policies are disclosed as follows: Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets Note 4 and, for additional unaudited information on brands and goodwill, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Income Taxes Note 5 and, for additional unaudited information, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Stock Based Compensation Expense Note 6 and, for additional unaudited information, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans Note 7 and, for additional unaudited information, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Risk Management Note 10 and, for additional unaudited information, see Our Business Risks in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Note 3 Impairment and Restructuring Charges and Merger Related Costs Impairment and Restructuring Charges In the fourth quarter of 2004, we incurred a charge of $150 million ($96 million after tax or $0.06 per share) in conjunction with the consolidation of FLNAs manufacturing network as part of its ongoing productivity program. Of this charge, $93 million relates to asset impairment, primarily reflecting the closure of four U.S. plants. Production from these plants has been redeployed to other FLNA facilities in the U.S. The remaining $57 million includes employee related costs of $29 million, contract termination costs of $8 million and other exit costs of $20 million. Employee related costs primarily reflect the termination costs for approximately 700 employees. As of December 25, 2004, substantially all terminations have occurred. Through December 25, 2004, we have paid $27 million, incurred non cash charges of $8 million, leaving a remaining accrual of $22 million. This accrual is included in other current liabilities and payments are expected through mid year 2006. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we incurred a charge of $147 million ($100 million after tax or $0.06 per share) in conjunction with actions taken to streamline our North American divisions and PepsiCo International. These actions were taken to increase focus and eliminate redundancies at PBNA and PI, and to improve the efficiency of the supply chain at FLNA. Of this charge, $81 million related to asset impairment, reflecting $57 million for the closure of a snack plant in Kentucky, the retirement of snack manufacturing lines in Maryland and Arkansas and $24 million for the closure of a PBNA office building in Florida. The remaining $66 million included employee related costs of $54 million and facility and other exit costs of $12 million. Employee related costs primarily reflect the termination costs for approximately 850 sales, distribution, manufacturing, research and marketing employees. As of December 25, 2004, all terminations have occurred and substantially no accrual remains. 64 Merger Related Costs In connection with the Quaker merger in 2001, we recognized merger related costs of $59 million ($42 million after tax or $0.02 per share) and $224 million ($190 million after tax or $0.11 per share) in 2003 and 2002, respectively. At December 25, 2004, we had related accruals of $34 million (primarily employee related) which are included within other current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets Useful Life 2004 2003 2002 Property, plant and equipment, net Land and improvements 10 30 yrs. $ 646 $ 591 Buildings and improvements 20 44 3,605 3,415 Machinery and equipment, including fleet 5 15 10,950 10,170 Construction in progress 729 579 15,930 14,755 Accumulated depreciation (7,781 ) (6,927 ) $ 8,149 $ 7,828 Depreciation expense $ 1,062 $ 1,020 $ 929 Amortizable intangible assets, net Brands 5 40 $ 1,008 $ 985 Other identifiable intangibles 3 15 225 212 1,233 1,197 Accumulated amortization (635 ) (479 ) $ 598 $ 718 Amortization expense $ 147 $ 145 $ 138 Depreciation and amortization are recognized on a straight line basis over an assets estimated useful life. Land is not depreciated and construction in progress is not depreciated until ready for service. Amortization of intangible assets for each of the next five years, based on 2004 foreign exchange rates, is expected to be $141 million in 2005, $140 million in 2006, $24 million in 2007, $23 million in 2008 and $22 million in 2009. Depreciable and amortizable assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating or macroeconomic environment. In these circumstances, if an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is generally based on discounted future cash flows. Useful lives are periodically evaluated to determine whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate the need for revision. For additional unaudited information on our amortizable brand policies, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. 65 Nonamortizable Intangible Assets Perpetual brands and goodwill are assessed for impairment at least annually to ensure that discounted future cash flows continue to exceed the related book value. A perpetual brand is impaired if its book value exceeds its fair value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment if the book value of its reporting unit exceeds its fair value. A reporting unit can be a division or business within a division. If the fair value of an evaluated asset is less than its book value, the asset is written down based on its discounted future cash flows to fair value. No impairment charges resulted from the required impairment evaluations. The change in the book value of nonamortizable intangible assets during 2004 is as follows: Balance,Beginningof Year Acquisitions Translationand Other Balance,End ofYear Frito Lay North America Goodwill $ 130 $ $ 8 $ 138 PepsiCo Beverages North America Goodwill 2,157 4 2,161 Brands 59 59 2,216 4 2,220 PepsiCo International Goodwill 1,334 29 72 1,435 Brands 808 61 869 2,142 29 133 2,304 Quaker Foods North America Goodwill 175 175 Corporate Pension intangible 2 3 5 Total goodwill 3,796 29 84 3,909 Total brands 867 61 928 Total pension intangible 2 3 5 $ 4,665 $ 29 $ 148 $ 4,842 66 Note 5 Income Taxes 2004 2003 2002 Income before income taxes continuing operations U.S. $ 2,946 $ 3,267 $ 3,178 Foreign 2,600 1,725 1,255 $ 5,546 $ 4,992 $ 4,433 Provision for income taxes continuing operations Current: U.S. Federal $ 1,030 $ 1,326 $ 948 Foreign 256 341 256 State 69 80 55 1,355 1,747 1,259 Deferred: U.S. Federal 11 (274 ) 146 Foreign 5 (47 ) 11 State 1 (2 ) 17 17 (323 ) 174 $ 1,372 $ 1,424 $ 1,433 Tax rate reconciliation continuing operations U.S. Federal statutory tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % State income tax, net of U.S. Federal tax benefit 0.8 1.0 1.0 Lower taxes on foreign results (5.4 ) (5.5 ) (3.5 ) Settlement of prior years audit (4.8 ) (2.2 ) Merger related costs and impairment and restructuring charges 0.1 1.0 Other, net (0.9 ) 0.1 (1.2 ) Annual tax rate 24.7 % 28.5 % 32.3 % Deferred tax liabilities Investments in noncontrolled affiliates $ 850 $ 792 Property, plant and equipment 857 806 Pension benefits 669 563 Intangible assets other than nondeductible goodwill 153 146 Safe harbor leases 13 33 Zero coupon notes 46 53 Other 144 199 Gross deferred tax liabilities 2,732 2,592 Deferred tax assets Net carryforwards 666 535 Stock based compensation 402 332 Retiree medical benefits 402 343 Other employee related benefits 379 384 Various current and noncurrent liabilities 460 482 Gross deferred tax assets 2,309 2,076 Valuation allowances (564 ) (438 ) Deferred tax assets, net 1,745 1,638 Net deferred tax liabilities $ 987 $ 954 67 2004 2003 2002 Deferred taxes included within: Prepaid expenses and other current assets $ 229 $ 307 Deferred income taxes $ 1,216 $ 1,261 Analysis of valuation allowances Balance, beginning of year $ 438 $ 487 $ 511 Provision/(benefit) 118 (52 ) (22 ) Other additions/(deductions) 8 3 (2 ) Balance, end of year $ 564 $ 438 $ 487 For additional unaudited information on our income tax policies, including our reserves for income taxes, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Carryforwards, Credits and Allowances Operating loss carryforwards totaling $4.3 billion at year end 2004 are being carried forward in a number of foreign and state jurisdictions where we are permitted to use tax operating losses from prior periods to reduce future taxable income. These operating losses will expire as follows: $0.1 billion in 2005, $3.1 billion between 2006 and 2024 and $1.1 billion may be carried forward indefinitely. In addition, certain tax credits generated in prior periods of approximately $49.3 million are available to reduce certain foreign tax liabilities through 2011. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Tax Benefit from Discontinued Operations In the fourth quarter of 2004, we reached agreement with the taxing authorities for an open issue related to our discontinued restaurant operations which resulted in a tax benefit of $38 million or $0.02 per share. Undistributed International Earnings At December 25, 2004, we had approximately $11.9 billion of undistributed international earnings. We have not recognized any U.S. tax expense on these earnings, since we intend to reinvest the earnings outside the U.S. for the foreseeable future, subject to the opportunity afforded us as a result of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA), which was signed by the President on October 22, 2004. The AJCA creates a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed international earnings by providing an 85% dividends received deduction. The deduction is subject to a number of limitations and uncertainty remains as to how to interpret certain provisions in the AJCA. Therefore, we have not decided on whether, or to what extent, we might repatriate undistributed foreign earnings to the U.S. Until further guidance is available from the Treasury Department, or possibly from Congress, it is difficult to fully quantify 68 the impact of the AJCA if we were to take advantage of that legislation. Based on our analysis to date, however, the maximum amount that we can repatriate under the AJCA is $7.5 billion, which would result in a tax liability of approximately $475 million based on our expectation of how the AJCA will be interpreted. We expect to finalize our assessment of the opportunity presented by the AJCA as soon as further guidance is available, which could be as early as the first or second quarter of 2005. Note 6 Stock Based Compensation Our stock based compensation program is a broad based program designed to attract and retain employees while also aligning employees interests with the interests of our shareholders. Employees at all levels participate in our stock based compensation program. In addition, members of our Board of Directors participate in our stock based compensation program in connection with their service on our Board. Stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs) are granted to employees under the 2003 Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), our only active stock based plan. At year end 2004, 62 million shares were available for future executive and SharePower grants. For additional unaudited information on our stock based compensation program, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. SharePower Grants SharePower options are awarded under our 2003 LTIP to all eligible employees, based on job level or classification, and in the case of international employees, tenure as well. Options become exercisable after three years and have a 10 year term. In 2004, SharePower grants represented approximately 38% of our annual employee option grants. Executive Grants All senior management and certain middle management are eligible for LTIP grants. All stock option grants have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the day of grant and generally have a 10 year term with vesting after three years. There have been no reductions to the exercise price of previously issued awards, and any repricing of awards would require approval of our shareholders. Beginning in 2004, executives who are awarded long term incentives based on their performance are offered the choice of stock options or RSUs. RSUs also generally vest after three years of service and each restricted stock unit can be settled in a share of our stock after the vesting period. Senior officers do not have a choice and are granted 50% stock options and 50% RSUs. Executives who elect RSUs receive one RSU for every four stock options that would have otherwise been granted. Vesting of RSU awards for senior officers is contingent upon the achievement of pre established performance targets. In 2004, we granted three million RSUs with a weighted average fair value of $47.28. 69 Method of Accounting and Our Assumptions We account for our employee stock options under the fair value method of accounting using a Black Scholes model to measure stock based compensation expense at the date of grant. Two of our anchor bottlers, PBG and PAS, will be adopting SFAS 123R in 2005. They are currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 123R on their respective financial statements, which will impact our bottling equity income. Our weighted average Black Scholes fair value assumptions include: 2004 2003 2002 Expected life 6 yrs. 6 yrs. 6 yrs. Risk free interest rate 3.3 % 3.1 % 4.4 % Expected volatility 26 % 27 % 27 % Expected dividend yield 1.8 % 1.15 % 1.14 % Our Stock Option Activity(a) 2004 2003 2002 Options Average Price(b) Options Average Price(b) Options AveragePrice(b) Outstanding at beginning of year 198,173 $ 38.12 190,432 $ 36.45 176,922 $ 32.35 Granted 14,137 47.47 41,630 39.89 37,376 48.75 Exercised (31,614 ) 30.57 (25,833 ) 26.74 (19,558 ) 23.32 Forfeited/expired (6,435 ) 43.82 (8,056 ) 43.56 (4,308 ) 39.01 Outstanding at end of year 174,261 40.05 198,173 38.12 190,432 36.45 Exercisable at end of year 94,643 $ 36.41 97,663 $ 32.56 82,620 $ 30.14 Weighted average fair value of options granted $ 12.04 $ 11.21 $ 15.20 Stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 25, 2004(a) Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Range of Exercise Price Options AverageLife(c) AveragePrice(b) Options AveragePrice(b) $14.40 to $21.54 4,209 1.75 yrs. $ 20.69 4,209 $ 20.69 $23.00 to $33.75 24,291 3.49 29.97 24,129 29.98 $34.00 to $43.50 98,348 6.17 39.34 59,580 38.97 $43.75 to $54.25 47,413 7.76 48.56 6,725 47.44 174,261 6.04 40.05 94,643 36.41 (a) Options are in thousands and include options previously granted under Quaker plans. No additional options or shares may be granted under the Quaker plans. (b) Weighted average exercise price. (c) Weighted average contractual life remaining in years. 70 Note 7 Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans Our pension plans cover full time employees in the U.S. and certain international employees. Benefits are determined based on either years of service or a combination of years of service and earnings. U.S. retirees are also eligible for medical and life insurance benefits (retiree medical) if they meet age and service requirements. Generally, our share of retiree medical costs is capped at specified dollar amounts, which vary based upon years of service, with retirees contributing the remainder up to the total cost. We use a September 30 measurement date and all plan assets and liabilities are reported as of that date. The cost or benefit of plan changes which increase or decrease benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost) is included in expense on a straight line basis over the average remaining service period of employees expected to receive benefits. The Medicare Act was signed into law in December 2003 and we applied the provisions of the Medicare Act to our plans in 2004. The Medicare Act provides a subsidy for sponsors of retiree medical plans who offer drug benefits equivalent to those provided under Medicare. Our 2004 retiree medical costs were $7 million lower as a result of the Medicare Act and our 2004 liability was reduced by $80 million. We expect our 2005 retiree medical costs to be approximately $10 million lower as a result of the Medicare Act. Further guidance on the Medicare Act is pending which could impact our previously recognized amounts. For additional unaudited information on our pension and retiree medical plans and related accounting policies and assumptions, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. 2004 2003 2002 Weighted average pension assumptions Liability discount rate 6.1 % 6.1 % 6.7 % Expense discount rate 6.1 % 6.7 % 7.4 % Expected return on plan assets 7.8 % 8.2 % 9.1 % Rate of salary increases 4.4 % 4.4 % 4.4 % Components of pension expense Service cost $ 220 $ 178 $ 156 Interest cost 318 284 265 Expected return on plan assets (390 ) (359 ) (329 ) Amortization of prior service cost 7 6 6 Amortization of experience loss 90 48 4 Pension expense 245 157 102 Settlement/curtailment loss 5 Special termination benefits 20 4 9 Total $ 270 $ 161 $ 111 Weighted average retiree medical assumptions Liability discount rate 6.1 % 6.1 % 6.7 % Expense discount rate 6.1 % 6.7 % 7.5 % 71 2004 2003 2002 Components of retiree medical expense Service cost $ 38 $ 33 $ 25 Interest cost 72 73 66 Amortization of prior service benefit (8 ) (3 ) (7 ) Amortization of experience loss 19 13 3 Retiree medical expense 121 116 87 Special termination benefits 4 1 Total $ 125 $ 116 $ 88 2004 2003 2004 2003 Pension Retiree Medical Change in projected benefit liability Liability at beginning of year $ 5,214 $ 4,324 $ 1,264 $ 1,120 Service cost 220 178 38 33 Interest cost 318 284 72 73 Plan amendments (16 ) 5 (41 ) (63 ) Participant contributions 9 6 Experience loss 334 541 58 171 Benefit payments (234 ) (208 ) (76 ) (70 ) Settlement/curtailment loss (11 ) Special termination benefits 19 4 4 Foreign currency adjustment 67 80 Liability at end of year $ 5,920 $ 5,214 $ 1,319 $ 1,264 Liability at end of year for service to date $ 4,943 $ 4,350 Change in fair value of plan assets Fair value at beginning of year $ 4,245 $ 3,537 $ $ Actual return on plan assets 469 281 Employer contributions/funding 453 552 76 70 Participant contributions 9 6 Benefit payments (234 ) (208 ) (76 ) (70 ) Settlement/curtailment loss (11 ) Foreign currency adjustment 59 77 Fair value at end of year $ 4,990 $ 4,245 $ $ Funded status as recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet Funded status at end of year $ (930 ) $ (969 ) $ (1,319 ) $ (1,264 ) Unrecognized prior service cost/(benefit) 22 44 (116 ) (83 ) Unrecognized experience loss 2,393 2,207 473 434 Fourth quarter benefit payments 12 6 19 19 Net amounts recognized $ 1,497 $ 1,288 $ (943 ) $ (894 ) 72 2004 2003 2004 2003 Pension Retiree Medical Net amounts as recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet Other assets $ 1,866 $ 1,581 $ $ Intangible assets 5 2 Other liabilities (424 ) (334 ) (943 ) (894 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss 50 39 Net amounts recognized $ 1,497 $ 1,288 $ (943 ) $ (894 ) Components of increase in unrecognized experience loss Decrease in discount rate $ 4 $ 446 $ $ 60 Employee related assumption changes 261 (6 ) 109 80 Liability related experience different from assumptions 69 100 31 32 Actual asset return different from expected return (79 ) 78 Amortization of losses (90 ) (48 ) (19 ) (13 ) Other, including foreign currency adjustments and 2003 Medicare Act 21 30 (82 ) Total $ 186 $ 600 $ 39 $ 159 Selected information for plans with liability for service to date in excess of plan assets Liability for service to date $ (511 ) $ (383 ) $ (1,319 ) $ (1,264 ) Projected benefit liability $ (912 ) $ (727 ) $ (1,319 ) $ (1,264 ) Fair value of plan assets $ 172 $ 123 Of the total projected pension benefit liability at year end 2004, $637 million relates to plans that we do not fund because of unfavorable tax treatment. Future Benefit Payments Our estimated future benefit payments to beneficiaries are as follows: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 14 Pension $ 215 $ 220 $ 235 $ 255 $ 280 $ 1,855 Retiree medical $ 85 $ 80 $ 85 $ 90 $ 95 $ 515 These benefit payments to beneficiaries include payments made from both funded and unfunded pension plans. The above payments exclude any discretionary contributions we may make. We expect such contributions to be approximately $400 million in 2005. 73 Pension Assets The expected return on pension plan assets is based on our historical experience, our pension plan investment guidelines, and our expectations for long term rates of return. Our pension plan investment guidelines are established based upon an evaluation of market conditions, tolerance for risk and cash requirements for benefit payments. Our target allocation for 2005 and actual pension plan asset allocation are as follows: TargetAllocation ActualAllocation Asset Category 2005 2004 2003 Equity securities 60 % 60 % 57 % Debt securities 40 % 39 % 34 % Other, primarily cash 1 % 9 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Pension assets include approximately 5.5 million shares of PepsiCo common stock with a market value of $267 million in 2004, and 5.5 million shares with a market value of $251 million in 2003. Our investment policy limits the investment in PepsiCo stock at the time of investment to 10% of the fair value of plan assets. Retiree Medical Cost Trend Rates An average increase of 11% in the cost of covered retiree medical benefits is assumed for 2005. This average increase is then projected to decline gradually to 5% in 2010 and thereafter. These assumed health care cost trend rates have an impact on the retiree medical plan expense and liability. However, the cap on our share of retiree medical costs limits the impact. A 1 percentage point change in the assumed health care trend rate would have the following effects: 1%Increase 1% Decrease 2004 service and interest cost components $ 4 $ (3 ) 2004 benefit liability $ 46 $ (41 ) Savings Plan Our U.S. employees are eligible to participate in 401(k) savings plans, which are voluntary defined contribution plans. The plans are designed to provide employees with retirement savings and strengthen their incentive to build shareholder value. We make matching contributions on a portion of eligible pay based on years of service. In 2004, our contribution was $35 million. 74 Note 8 Noncontrolled Bottling Affiliates Our most significant noncontrolled bottling affiliates are The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG) and PepsiAmericas (PAS). Approximately 10% of our net revenue reflects sales to PBG. The Pepsi Bottling Group In addition to approximately 42% of PBGs outstanding common stock that we own at year end 2004, we own 100% of PBGs class B common stock and approximately 7% of the equity of Bottling Group, LLC, PBGs principal operating subsidiary. This gives us economic ownership of approximately 46% of PBGs combined operations. PBGs summarized financial information is as follows: 2004 2003 2002 Current assets $ 2,039 $ 3,039 Noncurrent assets 8,754 8,505 Total assets $ 10,793 $ 11,544 Current liabilities $ 1,581 $ 2,478 Noncurrent liabilities 6,818 6,789 Minority interest 445 396 Total liabilities $ 8,844 $ 9,663 Our investment $ 1,594 $ 1,353 Net revenue $ 10,906 $ 10,265 $ 9,216 Gross profit $ 5,250 $ 5,050 $ 4,215 Operating profit $ 976 $ 956 $ 898 Net income $ 457 $ 416 $ 428 In December 2002, PBG acquired Pepsi Gemex, a franchise bottler in Mexico, in which we previously held a 34% ownership interest. The table above includes the results of Pepsi Gemex from the transaction date forward. Our investment in PBG, which includes the related goodwill, was $320 million higher than our ownership interest in their net assets at year end 2004. Based upon the quoted closing price of PBG shares at year end 2004, the calculated market value of our shares in PBG, excluding our investment in Bottling Group, LLC, exceeded our investment balance by approximately $1.7 billion. 75 PepsiAmericas At year end 2004, we owned approximately 41% of PepsiAmericas and their summarized financial information is as follows: 2004 2003 2002 Current assets $ 530 $ 576 Noncurrent assets 3,000 3,021 Total assets $ 3,530 $ 3,597 Current liabilities $ 521 $ 599 Noncurrent liabilities 1,386 1,433 Total liabilities $ 1,907 $ 2,032 Our investment $ 924 $ 847 Net revenue $ 3,345 $ 3,237 $ 3,240 Gross profit $ 1,423 $ 1,360 $ 1,272 Operating profit $ 340 $ 316 $ 301 Income from continuing operations $ 182 $ 158 $ 136 Net income $ 182 $ 158 $ 130 Our investment in PAS, which includes the related goodwill, was $253 million higher than our ownership interest in their net assets at year end 2004. Based upon the quoted closing price of PAS shares at year end 2004, the calculated market value of our shares in PepsiAmericas exceeded our investment balance by approximately $277 million. In December 2004, PAS announced their acquisition of a regional bottler, Central Investment Corporation, for $340 million. Related Party Transactions Our significant related party transactions involve our noncontrolled bottling affiliates. We sell concentrate to these affiliates that is used in the production of carbonated soft drinks and non carbonated beverages. We also sell certain finished goods to these affiliates and we receive royalties for the use of our trademarks for certain products. Sales of concentrate and finished goods are reported net of bottler funding. For further unaudited information on these bottlers, see Our Customers in Managements Discussion and Analysis. These transactions with our bottling affiliates are reflected in our consolidated financial statements as follows: 2004 2003 2002 Net revenue $ 4,170 $ 3,699 $ 3,455 Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 114 $ 128 $ 105 Accounts and notes receivable $ 157 $ 158 Accounts payable and other current liabilities $ 95 $ 138 Such amounts are settled on terms consistent with other trade receivables and payables. See Note 9 regarding our guarantee of certain PBG debt. 76 In addition, we coordinate, on an aggregate basis, the negotiation and purchase of sweeteners and other raw materials requirements for certain of our bottlers with suppliers. Once we have negotiated the contracts, the bottlers order and take delivery directly from the supplier and pay the suppliers directly. Consequently, these transactions are not reflected in our consolidated financial statements. As the contracting party, we could be liable to these suppliers in the event of any nonpayment by our bottlers, but we consider this exposure to be remote. Note 9 Debt Obligations and Commitments 2004 2003 Short term debt obligations Current maturities of long term debt $ 160 $ 446 Other borrowings (3.2% and 5.1%) 1,644 520 Amounts reclassified to long term debt (750 ) (375 ) $ 1,054 $ 591 Long term debt obligations Short term borrowings, reclassified $ 750 $ 375 Notes due 2005 2026 (4.7% and 5.7%) 1,274 1,186 Zero coupon notes, $575 million due 2005 2012 (13.4%) 321 330 Other, due 2005 2014 (6.2% and 6.4%) 212 257 2,557 2,148 Less: current maturities of long term debt obligations (160 ) (446 ) $ 2,397 $ 1,702 The interest rates in the above table reflect weighted average rates as of year end. Short term borrowings are reclassified to long term when we have the intent and ability, through the existence of the unused lines of credit, to refinance these borrowings on a long term basis. At year end 2004, we maintained $1.5 billion in corporate lines of credit subject to normal banking terms and conditions. These credit facilities support short term debt issuances and remained unused as of December 25, 2004. Of the $1.5 billion, $750 million expires in June 2005 with the remaining $750 million expiring in June 2009. Upon consent of PepsiCo and the lenders, these facilities can be extended an additional year. In addition, $267 million of our debt was outstanding on various lines of credit maintained for our international divisions. These lines of credit are subject to normal banking terms and conditions and are committed to the extent of our borrowings. Interest Rate Swaps We entered into interest rate swaps in 2004 to effectively change the interest rate of a specific debt issuance from a fixed rate to a variable rate. The notional amount of the interest rate swaps outstanding at December 25, 2004 was $500 million. The interest rate received was 3.2% and the weighted average interest rate paid was 1.7%. The variable weighted average interest rate that we pay is linked to LIBOR and is subject to change. The terms of the interest rate swaps match the terms of the debt they modify. The swaps terminate in 2007. 77 At December 25, 2004, approximately 67% of total debt, after the impact of the associated interest rate swaps, was exposed to variable interest rates, compared to 43% at December 27, 2003. In addition to variable rate long term debt, all debt with maturities of less than one year is categorized as variable for purposes of this measure. Cross Currency Interest Rate Swaps In 2004, we entered into a cross currency interest rate swap to hedge the currency exposure on U.S. dollar denominated debt of $50 million held by a foreign affiliate. The terms of this swap match the terms of the debt it modifies. The swap terminates in 2008. The unrealized loss related to this swap was $3 million at December 25, 2004, resulting in a U.S. dollar liability of $53 million. Long Term Contractual Commitments Payments Due by Period Total 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 &beyond Long term debt obligations(a) $ 2,397 $ $ 722 $ 1,262 $ 413 Non cancelable operating leases 666 155 193 120 198 Purchasing commitments(b) 4,386 1,225 1,243 792 1,126 Marketing commitments 1,413 440 422 262 289 Other commitments 136 104 25 6 1 $ 8,998 $ 1,924 $ 2,605 $ 2,442 $ 2,027 (a) Excludes current maturities of long term debt of $160 million which are classified within current liabilities. (b) Includes approximately $30 million of long term commitments which are reflected in other liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The above table reflects non cancelable commitments as of December 25, 2004 based on year end foreign exchange rates. Most long term contractual commitments, except for our long term debt obligations, are not recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Non cancelable operating leases primarily represent building leases. Non cancelable purchasing commitments are primarily for oranges and orange juices to be used for our Tropicana brand beverages. Non cancelable marketing commitments primarily are for sports marketing and with our fountain customers. Bottler funding is not reflected in our long term contractual commitments as it is negotiated on an annual basis. See Note 7 regarding our pension and retiree medical obligations and discussion below regarding our commitments to noncontrolled bottling affiliates and former restaurant operations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements It is not our business practice to enter into off balance sheet arrangements, other than in the normal course of business, nor is it our policy to issue guarantees to our bottlers, noncontrolled affiliates or third parties. However, certain guarantees were necessary to 78 facilitate the separation of our bottling and restaurant operations from us. In connection with these transactions, we have guaranteed $2.3 billion of Bottling Group, LLCs long term debt through 2012 and $39 million of YUM! Brands, Inc. (YUM) outstanding obligations, primarily property leases. The terms of our Bottling Group, LLC debt guarantee are intended to preserve the structure of PBGs separation from us and our payment obligation would be triggered if Bottling Group, LLC failed to perform under these debt obligations or the structure significantly changed. Our guarantees of certain obligations ensured YUMs continued use of certain properties. These guarantees would require our cash payment if YUM failed to perform under these lease obligations. See Our Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position in Managements Discussion and Analysis for further unaudited information on our borrowings. Note 10 Risk Management We are exposed to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy; foreign exchange risks; interest rates; stock prices; and discount rates, affecting the measurement of our pension and retiree medical liabilities. In the normal course of business, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, including the use of derivative instruments designated as cash flow and fair value hedges. See Our Business Risks in Managements Discussion and Analysis for further unaudited information on our business risks. For cash flow hedges, changes in fair value are generally deferred in accumulated other comprehensive loss within shareholders equity until the underlying hedged item is recognized in net income. For fair value hedges, changes in fair value are recognized immediately in earnings, consistent with the underlying hedged item. Hedging transactions are limited to an underlying exposure. As a result, any change in the value of our derivative instruments would be substantially offset by an opposite change in the value of the underlying hedged items. Hedging ineffectiveness and a net earnings impact occur when the change in the value of the hedge does not offset the change in the value of the underlying hedged item. If the derivative instrument is terminated, we continue to defer the related gain or loss and include it as a component of the cost of the underlying hedged item. Upon determination that the underlying hedged item will not be part of an actual transaction, we recognize the related gain or loss in net income in that period. We do not use derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes and we limit our exposure to individual counterparties to manage credit risk. 79 Commodity Prices We are subject to commodity price risk because our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing may be limited in the competitive environment in which we operate. This risk is managed through the use of fixed price purchase orders, pricing agreements, geographic diversity and cash flow hedges. We use cash flow hedges, with terms of no more than two years, to hedge price fluctuations related to a portion of our anticipated commodity purchases, primarily for corn, heating oil and natural gas. Any ineffectiveness is recorded immediately. However, our commodity hedges have not had any significant ineffectiveness. We classify both the earnings and cash flow impact from these hedges consistent with the underlying hedged item. During the next 12 months, we expect to reclassify gains of less than $1 million from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net income. Foreign Exchange Our operations outside of the U.S. generate over a third of our net revenue of which Mexico, the United Kingdom and Canada comprise nearly 20%. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency risks from unforeseen economic changes and political unrest. On occasion, we enter into hedges, primarily forward contracts with terms of no more than two years, to reduce the effect of foreign exchange rates. Ineffectiveness on these hedges has not been material. Interest Rates We centrally manage our debt and investment portfolios considering investment opportunities and risks, tax consequences and overall financing strategies. We may use interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps to manage our overall interest expense and foreign exchange risk. These instruments effectively change the interest rate and currency of specific debt issuances. These swaps are entered into concurrently with the issuance of the debt that they are intended to modify. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt. These swaps are entered into only with strong creditworthy counterparties, are settled on a net basis and are of relatively short duration. Stock Prices The portion of our deferred compensation liability that is based on certain market indices and on our stock price is subject to market risk. We hold mutual fund investments and prepaid forward contracts to manage this risk. Changes in the fair value of these investments and contracts are recognized immediately in earnings and are offset by changes in the related compensation liability. 80 Fair Value All derivative instruments are recognized in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value. The fair value of our derivative instruments is generally based on quoted market prices. Book and fair values of our derivative and financial instruments are as follows: 2004 2003 BookValue FairValue BookValue FairValue Assets Cash and cash equivalents(a) $1,280 $1,280 $820 $820 Short term investments (b) $2,165 $2,165 $1,181 $1,181 Forward exchange contracts (c) $8 $8 $3 $3 Commodity contracts (c) $11 $11 $4 $4 Prepaid forward contracts (c) $120 $120 $107 $107 Liabilities Forward exchange contracts (d) $35 $35 $33 $33 Commodity contracts (d) $8 $8 Debt obligations $3,451 $3,676 $2,293 $2,569 Interest rate swaps (d) $1 $1 Cross currency interest rate swaps (e) $3 $3 Included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet under the captions noted above or as indicated below. (a) Book value approximates fair value due to the short maturity. (b) Principally short term time deposits and includes $118 million at December 25, 2004 and $103 million at December 27, 2003 of mutual fund investments used to manage a portion of market risk arising from our deferred compensation liability. (c) Includes contracts not designated as hedges and reported within current assets and other assets. (d) Includes contracts not designated as hedges and reported within current liabilities and other liabilities. (e) Included within long term debt. This table excludes guarantees, including our guarantee of $2.3 billion of Bottling Group, LLCs long term debt. The guarantee had a fair value of $46 million at December 25, 2004 and $35 million at December 27, 2003 based on an external estimate of the cost to us of transferring the liability to an independent financial institution. See Note 9 for additional information on our guarantees. Note 11 Net Income per Common Share from Continuing Operations Basic net income per common share is net income available to common shareholders divided by the weighted average of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per common share is calculated using the weighted average of common shares outstanding adjusted to include the effect that would occur if in the money employee stock options were exercised and RSUs and preferred shares were converted into common shares. Options to purchase 7.0 million shares in 2004, 49.0 million shares in 2003 and 37.9 million shares in 2002 were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share because these options were 81 out of the money. Out of the money options had average exercise prices of $52.88 in 2004, $48.27 in 2003 and $48.29 in 2002. The computations of basic and diluted net income per common share from continuing operations are as follows: 2004 2003 2002 Income Shares(a) Income Shares(a) Income Shares(a) Net income $4,174 $3,568 $3,000 Preferred shares: Dividends (3) (3) (4) Redemption premium (22) (12) (25) Net income available for common shareholders $4,149 1,696 $3,553 1,718 $2,971 1,753 Basic net income per common share $2.45 $2.07 $1.69 Net income available for common shareholders $4,149 1,696 $3,553 1,718 $2,971 1,753 Dilutive securities: Stock options and RSUs 31 17 25 ESOP convertible preferred stock 24 2 15 3 28 3 Unvested stock awards 1 1 Diluted $4,173 1,729 $3,568 1,739 $2,999 1,782 Diluted net income per common share $2.41 $2.05 $1.68 (a) Weighted average common shares outstanding. Note 12 Preferred and Common Stock As of December 25, 2004, there were 3.6 billion shares of common stock and three million shares of convertible preferred stock authorized. The preferred stock was issued only for an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) established by Quaker and these shares are redeemable by the ESOP participants. The preferred stock accrues dividends at an annual rate of $5.46 per share. At year end 2004, there were 803,953 preferred shares issued and 424,853 shares outstanding. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into 4.9625 shares of common stock. The preferred shares may be called by us upon written notice at $78 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends. As of December 25, 2004, 0.4 million outstanding shares of preferred stock with a fair value of $110 million and 18 million shares of common stock were held in the accounts of ESOP participants. Quaker made the final award to its ESOP plan in June 2001. 82 2004 2003 2002 Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount Preferred stock 0.8 $ 41 0.8 $ 41 0.8 $ 41 Repurchased preferred stock Balance, beginning of year 0.3 $ 63 0.2 $ 48 0.1 $ 15 Redemptions 0.1 27 0.1 15 0.1 33 Balance, end of year 0.4 $ 90 0.3 $ 63 0.2 $ 48 Note 13 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Comprehensive income is a measure of income which includes both net income and other comprehensive income or loss. Other comprehensive loss results from items deferred on the balance sheet in shareholders equity. Other comprehensive income was $381 million in 2004, $405 million in 2003, and other comprehensive loss was $26 million in 2002. The accumulated balances for each component of other comprehensive loss were as follows: 2004 2003 2002 Currency translation adjustment $ (720 ) $ (1,121 ) $ (1,531 ) Cash flow hedges, net of tax (a) (19 ) (12 ) Minimum pension liability adjustment (b) (154 ) (135 ) (142 ) Other 7 1 1 Accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (886 ) $ (1,267 ) $ (1,672 ) (a) Includes $6 million gain in 2004, $8 million gain in 2003 and $4 million loss in 2002 for our share of our equity investees accumulated derivative activity. Deferred losses reclassified into earnings were $10 million in 2004, no impact in 2003, and $2 million in 2002. (b) Net of taxes of $77 million in 2004, $67 million in 2003 and $72 million in 2002. Also, includes $121 million in 2004, $110 million in 2003 and $99 million in 2002 for our share of our equity investees minimum pension liability adjustments. N ote 14 Supplemental Financial Information 2004 2003 2002 Accounts receivable Trade receivables $ 2,505 $ 2,309 Other receivables 591 626 3,096 2,935 Allowance, beginning of year 105 116 $ 121 Charged to expense 18 32 38 Deductions (a) (25 ) (43 ) (46 ) Other (b) (1 ) 3 Allowance, end of year 97 105 $ 116 Net receivables $ 2,999 $ 2,830 83 2004 2003 2002 Inventory (c) Raw materials $ 665 $ 618 Work in process 156 160 Finished goods 720 634 $ 1,541 $ 1,412 Accounts payable and other liabilities Accounts payable $ 1,731 $ 1,638 Accrued marketplace spending 1,285 1,243 Accrued compensation and benefits 961 851 Dividends payable 387 274 Insurance accruals 131 151 Other current liabilities 1,104 1,056 $ 5,599 $ 5,213 Other liabilities Reserves for income taxes $ 1,567 $ 1,775 Other 2,532 2,300 $ 4,099 $ 4,075 Other supplemental information Rent expense $ 245 $ 231 $ 194 Interest paid $ 137 $ 147 $ 119 Income taxes paid, net of refunds $ 1,833 $ 1,530 $ 700 Acquisitions(d) Fair value of assets acquired $ 78 $ 178 $ 626 Cash paid and debt issued (64 ) (71 ) (351 ) Liabilities assumed $ 14 $ 107 $ 275 (a) Includes accounts written off. (b) Includes collections of previously written off accounts and currency translation effects. (c) Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the average, first in, first out (FIFO) or last in, first out (LIFO) methods. Approximately 16% in 2004 and 10% in 2003 of the inventory cost was computed using the LIFO method. The differences between LIFO and FIFO methods of valuing these inventories are not material. (d) Includes our acquisition of the Wotsits brand in the United Kingdom for $228 million in 2002. 84 Managements Responsibility for Financial Reporting To Our Shareholders: At PepsiCo, our actions the actions of all our associates are governed by our Worldwide Code of Conduct. This code is clearly aligned with our stated values a commitment to sustained growth, through empowered people, operating with responsibility and building trust. Both the code and our core values enable us to operate with integrity both within the letter and the spirit of the law. Our code of conduct is reinforced consistently at all levels and in all countries. We have maintained strong governance policies and practices for many years. The management of PepsiCo is responsible for the objectivity and integrity of our consolidated financial statements. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has engaged independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, to audit our consolidated financial statements and they have expressed an unqualified opinion. We are committed to providing timely, accurate and understandable information to investors. This encompasses the following. Maintaining strong controls over financial reporting. Our system of internal control is based on the control criteria framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission published in their report titled, Internal Control Integrated Framework. The system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are executed as authorized and accurately recorded; that assets are safeguarded; and that accounting records are sufficiently reliable to permit the preparation of financial statements that conform in all material respects with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the specified time periods. We monitor these internal controls through self assessments and an ongoing program of internal audits. Our internal controls are reinforced through our Worldwide Code of Conduct, which sets forth our commitment to conduct business with integrity, and within both the letter and the spirit of the law. Exerting rigorous oversight of the business. We continuously review our business results and strategies. This encompasses financial discipline in our strategic and daily business decisions. Our Executive Committee is actively involved from understanding strategies and alternatives to reviewing key initiatives and financial performance. The intent is to ensure we remain objective in our assessments, constructively challenge our approach to potential business opportunities and issues, and monitor results and controls. Engaging strong and effective Corporate Governance from our Board of Directors. We have an active, capable and diligent Board that meets the required standards for independence, and we welcome the Boards oversight as a representative of our shareholders. Our Audit Committee comprises independent directors with the financial literacy, knowledge and experience to provide appropriate oversight. We review our critical accounting policies, financial reporting and internal control matters with them and encourage their direct communication with KPMG LLP, with our General Auditor, and 85 with our General Counsel. We have recently named a senior compliance officer to lead and coordinate our compliance policies and practices. Providing investors with financial results that are complete, transparent and understandable. The consolidated financial statements and financial information included in this report are the responsibility of management. This includes preparing the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require estimates based on managements best judgment. PepsiCo has a strong history of doing whats right. We realize that great companies are built on trust, strong ethical standards and principles. Our financial results are delivered from that culture of accountability, and we take responsibility for the quality and accuracy of our financial reporting. /S/ PETER A. BRIDGMAN Peter A. Bridgman Senior Vice President and Controller /S/ INDRA K. NOOYI Indra K. Nooyi President and Chief Financial Officer /S/ STEVEN S REINEMUND Steven S Reinemund Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 86 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Board of Directors and Shareholders PepsiCo, Inc.: We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet of PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 25, 2004 and December 27, 2003 and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Cash Flows and Common Shareholders Equity for each of the years in the three year period ended December 25, 2004. We have also audited managements assessment, included in Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 25, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). PepsiCo, Inc.s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements, an opinion on managements assessment, and an opinion on the effectiveness of PepsiCo, Inc.s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit of financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 25, 2004 and December 27, 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended December 25, 2004, in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, managements assessment that PepsiCo, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 25, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by COSO. Furthermore, in our opinion, PepsiCo, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 25, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by COSO. KPMG LLP New York, New York February 24, 2005 87 Selected Financial Data (in millions except per share amounts, unaudited) Quarterly First Quarter SecondQuarter ThirdQuarter FourthQuarter Net revenue 2004 $ 6,131 $ 7,070 $ 7,257 $ 8,803 2003 $ 5,530 $ 6,538 $ 6,830 $ 8,073 Gross profit 2004 $ 3,320 $ 3,857 $ 3,957 $ 4,721 2003 $ 2,996 $ 3,546 $ 3,714 $ 4,336 Impairment and restructuring charges (a) 2004 $ 150 2003 $ 147 Merger related costs (b) 2003 $ 11 $ 11 $ 9 $ 28 Net income continuing operations 2004 $ 804 $ 1,059 $ 1,364 $ 947 2003 $ 698 $ 944 $ 1,012 $ 914 Tax benefit from discontinued operations (c) 2004 $ 38 Net income per common share basic, continuing operations 2004 $ 0.47 $ 0.62 $ 0.80 $ 0.56 2003 $ 0.40 $ 0.55 $ 0.59 $ 0.53 Net income per common share diluted, continuing operations 2004 $ 0.46 $ 0.61 $ 0.79 $ 0.55 2003 $ 0.40 $ 0.54 $ 0.58 $ 0.52 Cash dividends declared per common share 2004 $ 0.16 $ 0.23 $ 0.23 $ 0.23 2003 $ 0.15 $ 0.16 $ 0.16 $ 0.16 2004 stock price per share (d) High $ 53.00 $ 55.48 $ 55.71 $ 53.00 Low $ 45.30 $ 50.28 $ 48.41 $ 47.37 Close $ 50.93 $ 54.95 $ 50.84 $ 51.94 2003 stock price per share (d) High $ 44.06 $ 45.11 $ 47.98 $ 48.88 Low $ 36.24 $ 38.06 $ 43.10 $ 44.11 Close $ 41.50 $ 44.74 $ 44.33 $ 46.47 The first, second, and third quarters consist of 12 weeks and the fourth quarter consists of 16 weeks. (a) Impairment and restructuring charges were $150 million ($96 million or $0.06 per share after tax) in 2004 and $147 million ($100 million or $0.06 after tax) in 2003 (see Note 3). 88 (b) Merger related costs (see Note 3): First Quarter SecondQuarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter 2003 Pre tax $ 11 $ 11 $ 9 $ 28 After tax $ 10 $ 9 $ 6 $ 17 Per share $ 0.01 (c) Fourth quarter 2004 net income was $985 million or $0.58 per share, reflecting a tax benefit from discontinued operations of $38 million or $0.02 per share. See Note 5. (d) Represents the composite high and low sales price and quarterly closing prices for one share of PepsiCo common stock. 89 Five Year Summary 2004 2003 2002 Net revenue $ 29,261 $ 26,971 $ 25,112 Income from continuing operations $ 4,174 $ 3,568 $ 3,000 Net income $ 4,212 $ 3,568 $ 3,000 Income per common share basic, continuing operations $ 2.45 $ 2.07 $ 1.69 Income per common share diluted, continuing operations $ 2.41 $ 2.05 $ 1.68 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.850 $ 0.630 $ 0.595 Total assets $ 27,987 $ 25,327 $ 23,474 Long term debt $ 2,397 $ 1,702 $ 2,187 2001 2000 Net revenue $ 23,512 $ 22,337 Net income $ 2,400 $ 2,543 Income per common share basic $ 1.35 $ 1.45 Income per common share diluted $ 1.33 $ 1.42 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.575 $ 0.555 Total assets $ 21,695 $ 20,757 Long term debt $ 2,651 $ 3,009 As a result of the adoption of SFAS 142 and the consolidation of SVE in 2002, the data provided above is not comparable. Includes restructuring and impairment charges of: 2004 2003 2001 2000 Pre tax $ 150 $ 147 $ 31 $ 184 After tax $ 96 $ 100 $ 19 $ 111 Per share $ 0.06 $ 0.06 $ 0.01 $ 0.06 In 2003, we voluntarily adopted the fair value method of accounting for stock options. We selected the retroactive restatement method as described in SFAS 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, to adopt this accounting. Under this method, we restated our 2003, 2002 and 2001 results to recognize stock based compensation expense as follows: 2003 2002 2001 Pre tax $ 407 $ 435 $ 385 After tax $ 293 $ 313 $ 262 Per share $ 0.16 $ 0.17 $ 0.14 Fiscal year 2000 was not restated for this adoption. Includes Quaker merger related costs of: 2003 2002 2001 Pre tax $ 59 $ 224 $ 356 After tax $ 42 $ 190 $ 322 Per share $ 0.02 $ 0.11 $ 0.18 The 2000 fiscal year consisted of fifty three weeks compared to fifty two weeks in our normal fiscal year. The 53rd week increased 2000 net revenue by an estimated $294 million and net income by an estimated $44 million (or $0.02 per share). Cash dividends per common share are those of pre merger PepsiCo prior to the effective date of the merger. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we reached agreement with the IRS for an open issue related to our discontinued restaurant operations which resulted in a tax benefit of $38 million or $0.02 per share. 90 GLOSSARY Anchor bottlers: The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG), PepsiAmericas, Inc. (PAS) and Pepsi Bottling Ventures (PBV). Bottler: customers who we have granted exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographical area. Bottler Case Sales (BCS): measure of physical 8 oz. case volume of beverages bearing our trademarks that bottlers have sold to independent distributors and retailers. BCS is reported on a monthly basis. Bottler funding: financial incentives we give to our bottlers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our beverage products. Business Process Transformation (BPT): our comprehensive multi year effort to drive efficiencies. It includes efforts to physically consolidate, or hardwire, key business functions to take advantage of our scale. It also includes moving to a common set of processes that underlie our key activities, and supporting them with common technology application. And finally, it includes our SAP installation, the computer system that will link all of our systems and processes. Concentrate Shipments and Equivalents (CSE): measure of our physical beverage volume to our customers. This measure is reported on our fiscal year basis. Consumers: people who eat and drink our products. Customers: franchise bottlers and independent distributors and retailers. CSD: carbonated soft drinks. Derivatives: financial instruments, such as Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures and options, that we use to manage our risk arising from changes in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and stock prices. Direct Store Delivery (DSD): delivery system used by us and our bottlers to deliver snacks and beverages directly to retail stores where our products are merchandised. Effective net pricing: reflects the year over year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in different package sizes and in different countries. Management operating cash flow: net cash provided by operating activities less capital spending plus sales of property, plant and equipment. It is our primary measure used to monitor cash flow performance. 91 Marketplace spending: sales incentives offered through various programs to our customers and consumers, as well as advertising and other marketing activities. Power of One: our initiative that enables us to leverage all of our products, services and talents for the advantage of our retail partners. Servings: common metric reflecting our consolidated physical unit volume. Our divisions physical unit measures are converted into servings based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines for single serving sizes of our products. Smart Spot: our initiative that helps consumers find our products that can contribute to healthier lifestyles. Transaction gains and losses: the impact on our consolidated financial statements of exchange rate changes arising from specific transactions. Translation adjustments: the impact of the conversion of our foreign affiliates financial statements to U.S. dollars for the purpose of consolidating our financial statements. 92 Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Included in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Our Business Risks. 
 
