Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis OUR BUSINESS Our Operations 20 Our Chairman and CEO Perspective 22 Our Customers 27 Our Distribution Network 28 Our Competition 28 Other Relationships 29 Our Business Risks 29 OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue Recognition 33 Brand and Goodwill Valuations 34 Income Tax Expense and Accruals 35 Stock Based Compensation Expense 36 Pension and Retiree Medical Plans 39 OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS Items Affecting Comparability 43 Results of Continuing Operations Consolidated Review 44 Results of Continuing Operations Division Review 49 Frito Lay North America 50 PepsiCo Beverages North America 51 PepsiCo International 52 Quaker Foods North America 54 Our Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position 55 18 Table of Contents Consolidated Statement of Income 58 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 59 Consolidated Balance Sheet 61 Consolidated Statement of Common Shareholders Equity 62 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions 63 Note 2 Our Significant Accounting Policies 67 Note 3 Restructuring and Impairment Charges and Merger Related Costs 69 Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets 70 Note 5 Income Taxes 72 Note 6 Stock Based Compensation 74 Note 7 Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans 77 Note 8 Noncontrolled Bottling Affiliates 80 Note 9 Debt Obligations and Commitments 83 Note 10 Risk Management 85 Note 11 Net Income per Common Share from Continuing Operations 87 Note 12 Preferred and Common Stock 88 Note 13 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 89 Note 14 Supplemental Financial Information 90 MANAGEMENTS RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING 91 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 93 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 94 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY 95 GLOSSARY 96 19 Table of Contents Our discussion and analysis is an integral part of understanding our financial results. Definitions of key terms can be found in the glossary on page 96. Tabular dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts reflect common per share amounts, assume dilution unless noted, and are based on unrounded amounts. Percentage changes are based on unrounded amounts. OUR BUSINESS Our Operations We are a leading, global snack and beverage company. We manufacture, market and sell a variety of salty, convenient, sweet and grain based snacks, carbonated and non carbonated beverages and foods. We are organized into four divisions: Frito Lay North America, PepsiCo Beverages North America, PepsiCo International, and Quaker Foods North America. Net revenue and operating profit contributions to growth from each of our divisions in 2005 are as follows: Our North American divisions operate in the United States and Canada. Our international divisions operate in over 200 countries, with our largest operations in Mexico and the United Kingdom. Additional information concerning our divisions and geographic areas is presented in Note 1. Frito Lay North America Frito Lay North America (FLNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets, sells and distributes branded snacks. These snacks include Lays potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips, Cheetos cheese flavored snacks, Tostitos tortilla chips, Fritos corn chips, branded dips, Ruffles potato chips, Quaker Chewy granola bars, Rold Gold pretzels, Sun Chips multigrain snacks, Munchies snack mix, Grandmas cookies, Lays Stax potato crisps, Quaker Quakes corn and rice snacks, Quaker Fruit & Oatmeal bars, Cracker Jack candy coated popcorn and Go Snacks. FLNA branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. 20 Table of Contents PepsiCo Beverages North America PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mountain Dew, Gatorade, Tropicana Pure Premium, Sierra Mist, Tropicana juice drinks, Mug, Propel, SoBe, Tropicana Twister, Dole and Slice. PBNA also manufactures, markets and sells ready to drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with Lipton and Starbucks. In addition, PBNA licenses the Aquafina water brand to its bottlers and markets this brand. PBNA sells concentrate and finished goods for some of these brands to bottlers licensed by us, and some of these branded products are sold directly by us to independent distributors and retailers. The franchise bottlers sell our brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers. PBNAs volume reflects sales to its independent distributors and retailers, and the sales of beverages bearing our trademarks that franchise bottlers have reported as sold to independent distributors and retailers. PepsiCo International PepsiCo International (PI) manufactures through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates, a number of leading salty and sweet snack brands including Gamesa and Sabritas in Mexico, Walkers in the United Kingdom, and Smiths in Australia. Further, PI manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells many Quaker brand snacks. PI also manufactures, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under the brands Pepsi, 7UP, Mirinda, Gatorade, Mountain Dew and Tropicana. These brands are sold to franchise bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. However, in certain markets, PI operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. PI also licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its franchise bottlers. PI reports two measures of volume. Snack volume is reported on a system wide basis, which includes our own volume and the volume sold by our noncontrolled affiliates. Beverage volume reflects company owned and franchise bottler sales of beverages bearing our trademarks to independent distributors and retailers. Quaker Foods North America Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNAs products include Quaker oatmeal, Aunt Jemima mixes and syrups, Quaker grits, Capn Crunch and Life ready to eat cereals, Rice A Roni, Pasta Roni and Near East side dishes. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. 21 Table of Contents Our Chairman and CEO Perspective The questions below reflect key questions shareholders most often ask about our businesses, and are followed by answers from our Chairman and CEO, Steve Reinemund. There is a lot in the press about the obesity epidemic. How urgent is the obesity issue, and does it pose a risk to PepsiCos business? There is no question that obesity is a significant issue gaining increased attention and importance in many nations. Public health is a complex issue that requires partnerships across public and private sectors to find solutions that help consumers. Thats why, while we view this issue as a challenge, we also see the growing interest in health and wellness as a growth opportunity. Given that North America revenues from our Smart Spot eligible products more than 250 products that contribute to healthier lifestyles grew at more than two and one half times the rate of the rest of our portfolio in 2005, its clear that our strategy is aligned with the interests of our consumers and retail partners. And its the right thing to do for our business. As a result, our commitment to health and wellness has never been stronger. We believe the solution to consumers health and wellness needs and the obesity epidemic in particular lies in the concept of energy balance; that is, finding balance between the calories consumed and the calories burned. It requires companies like PepsiCo to be part of the solution a priority on which we will continue to take action. Whether its reformulating our products with lower sugar, fat or sodium, adding new or additional ingredients that deliver health benefits, or developing entirely new products, weve committed considerable resources to doing what we do best giving consumers what they want. Weve also committed to supporting active lifestyles and marketing responsibly. Your commitment to the International business seems to be paying off. What are the drivers of growth in your International business, and do you expect the growth to continue at the same pace? The outstanding growth achieved by our International business in 2005 is the result of years of investment and the implementation of a deliberate strategy to create scale in key international markets that will deliver profitable growth. As the fastest growing division at PepsiCo and now the largest revenue generator PepsiCo Internationals strategy clearly is delivering results. To give more perspective on why were encouraged about our international growth prospects, the portfolio of international markets is both broadening and strengthening, as we deliver exciting new products, tailored to local tastes, to consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. Were particularly pleased with our growing presence in key emerging markets such as Brazil, China, India and Russia. 22 Table of Contents Were very proud of the growth generated through our brands. Our performance is directly attributable to the passionate people who run our businesses in our international markets, each and every day of the year, adapting our products, packaging and distribution systems to a wide variety of tastes and market conditions. We continue to expect our International business to grow at about twice the rate of our North American businesses, though favorable global macroeconomics clearly contributed to our 2005 performance which exceeded that expectation. What is the role of acquisitions in PepsiCos future growth? We continue to believe that small, strategic, or tuck in acquisitions, will help propel our future growth. Our recent acquisitions of Sakata in Australia, Star Foods in Poland, Punica in Germany, P.J. Smoothies in the United Kingdom and Stacys Pita Chips in the United States, are clear examples of how smaller acquisitions that offer considerable synergies with our existing businesses can help us grow in new geographies and new categories. In each case, we exercise a disciplined approach to assessing any opportunity, carefully reviewing both strategic and financial criteria to ensure a fit with PepsiCo. Its important to understand that while acquisitions have a role to play in our growth plans, we believe well continue to experience strong organic growth in our existing portfolio of businesses. Theyre equipped with big, muscular brands, they have room to grow, and they receive constant investment and attention. The carbonated soft drink category in North America has slowed in recent years. What does this trend mean for PepsiCos growth prospects? While our carbonated soft drink business was down in North America in 2005, were convinced that, over time, growth can be restored as we continue to invest in innovation for our carbonated beverages. Our diet carbonated soft drinks continue to grow in North America, an indication that consumers will remain engaged with the category if we offer carbonated soft drinks they desire. Importantly, if you look at the total liquid refreshment beverage (LRB) category in North America meaning all beverage occasions except for coffee, alcohol, tap and bulk water youll see its growing at about 2.5% annually. This is consistent with historical growth rates for LRB, and PepsiCo is very well positioned to capture this growth. Thats because we have an advantaged portfolio of non carbonated beverages, which is exactly where the growth in LRB is, and where we believe it continues to head. PepsiCos line up of waters, sports drinks, teas and energy drinks includes leading brands, and they illustrate how an advantaged portfolio of non carbonated beverages can deliver great products for consumers, and solid returns for retailers and shareholders. 23 Table of Contents How are you preparing to grow PepsiCos top line? In a word, innovation the lifeblood of any consumer products company. PepsiCo views this capability as a critical and sustainable competitive advantage. It is the reason we spend considerable time and dollars filling our pipeline with an array of consumer propositions to address needs for convenient foods and beverages. We use a thoughtful and balanced approach to funding innovation and putting resources in place to support it. Some examples of that balance include balancing good for you and better for you product innovation with resources earmarked for our fun for you portfolio. In 2005, for example, our investment in new Aquafina FlavorSplash and new Gatorade Lemonade drove growth with our Smart Spot portfolio, while Lays Cheddar and Sour Cream flavored potato chips contributed to solid growth with our Lays brand. But it also means balancing investment between carbonated and non carbonated beverages, and balancing between close in ideas like line extensions, and entirely new product platforms that dont exist today. Weve implemented new ways of coordinating the collection of insights from consumers and retail partners so we can better share those insights across our businesses, and generate ideas that have a greater chance of success in the marketplace. I think its important to understand that innovation isnt limited to products. Across PepsiCo, were constantly innovating to strengthen our go to market systems and to find structures that drive faster, more efficient and more cost effective decision making. A current example is our Business Process Transformation, or BPT, a comprehensive, multi year initiative that centers on moving all of PepsiCo to a common set of processes for key business activities, with current efforts focused on North America. More than a year ago, you announced PepsiCos Business Process Transformation (BPT) initiative. What are the objectives of this program, and what is its status? Through larger acquisitions and mergers over the years, such as Tropicana and Quaker, weve recognized the need to seamlessly integrate formerly independent information systems. We are also committed to harmonizing key business processes such as Finance, Consumer Insights, Purchasing and Supply Chain and continuously improving our customer service. Were supporting these processes with common Information Technology applications, linking our systems so that key pieces of data supporting all our businesses flow seemlessly from system to system. 2005 was a big year of preparation for the first deployment of our new, integrated system, which started its phased roll out in early 2006. In fact, on January 16, the very first of these new capabilities began its roll out. Several of our North American plants, along with our Global Procurement team, now have streamlined tools and processes used for purchasing materials other than commodities, packaging and ingredients. Additional capabilities will be rolled out over the next several years. 24 Table of Contents When complete, we expect to have an infrastructure that will support better, faster decisions, allowing us to capture more growth opportunities, and better serve our customers. Importantly, it will also leverage PepsiCos scale for efficiency and effectiveness. On the cost side, a number of key commodities have seen high rates of inflation. How is PepsiCo managing in an environment of increasing costs? There is no doubt that 2005 was a challenging year for input costs especially energy and plastics resin. Between several major hurricanes hitting the United States and inflation, we saw some expected and some unexpected pressure on our margins, but we managed those cost pressures and met our financial targets. And we expect 2006 to be challenging as well, largely reflecting increased energy and commodity costs. However, we have solid plans in place to offset these rising costs through productivity programs and hedging strategies, and expect to carefully manage pricing to help offset some of the inflation. PepsiCos businesses generate a great deal of cash, and the Companys balance sheet is very conservative. Why dont you put more debt on the balance sheet and use the proceeds to increase the dividend or increase share repurchases? PepsiCo does generate considerable cash, and we are disciplined about how cash is reinvested in the business. Over the past three years, $5.7 billion has been reinvested in the businesses through capital expenditures and acquisitions, and $12.0 billion has been returned to shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases. In essence, any cash we have not reinvested in the business has been returned to our shareholders. And, we are pleased with our current capital structure and debt ratings, which give us ready access to capital markets and keep our cost of borrowing down. PepsiCos focus on people specifically diversity and inclusion has been a priority in previous reports. What results have you delivered through this focus and what changes have you made? In terms of the diversity of our workforce, weve seen a significant increase in the number of women and people of color whove joined PepsiCo in various functions and at various levels. Since 2000, the percentage of women in management positions in the United States, has risen from 20% to 25%. The number of people of color in management positions has climbed from 15% to almost 22% we made a gain of about 2 points of growth in 2005 alone. This change in the workforce has contributed to our growth through product ideas, greater insights about consumers and connections into growing urban and ethnic communities. While a diverse workforce is important, we must also create an inclusive environment where everyone regardless of race, gender, physical ability or sexual orientation feels valued, engaged, and wants to be part of our growth. It is only through inclusion that we will fully unleash innovation and growth for our business. 25 Table of Contents To capture this potential, we made some changes in 2005. For example, to put accountability for diversity and inclusion squarely in the hands of our people, and into our divisions, we formed the PepsiCo Diversity & Inclusion Governance Council. Representatives from each division and various functions comprise the council, and its chair reports directly to me. I also asked each of my direct reports to take ownership for the development of specific employee groups. Whether it is African Americans, Latinos, white males, women, or other groups of PepsiCo employees, each has a voice at the most senior decision making entity at your company. In the context of people issues, corporate responsibility is a hot topic. How are you ensuring PepsiCo associates are acting in accordance with the law, and beyond the law doing the right thing? The need for trust between corporations and the general public is as big as ever, and investors rightly should ask this question of every company. PepsiCos focus on values remains honed on a commitment to every shareholder to deliver sustained growth, through empowered people, operating with responsibility and building trust. This commitment, along with other guiding principles, is what we aspire to each and every day. It complements our approach to corporate governance, the strength of our financial controls, and the companys Worldwide Code of Conduct. Our Values and our Worldwide Code of Conduct are known to every PepsiCo associate and are presented in 38 languages on our website (www.pepsico.com). But the strength of any such commitment is not in the words themselves, but in how they are lived every day. We continuously remind our associates of the rewards that come with running the company in a legal, ethical and responsible way, along with the consequences of failing to do so. We want, and intend to be, a sustainable enterprise, and that demands our people act in responsible ways, and think about our businesses for the long term. 26 Table of Contents Our Customers Our customers include franchise bottlers and independent distributors and retailers. We normally grant our bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements specify the amount to be paid by our bottlers for concentrate and full goods and for Aquafina royalties, as well as the manufacturing process required for product quality. Since we do not sell directly to the consumer, we rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our products. For our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume based rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. For our bottlers, these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade and consumer programs, such as consumer incentives, advertising support, new product support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. Consumer incentives include coupons, pricing discounts and promotions, such as sweepstakes and other promotional offers. Advertising support is directed at advertising programs and supporting bottler media. New product support includes targeted consumer and retailer incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point of purchase materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. Vending and cooler equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending machines and cooler equipment. The nature and type of programs vary annually. The level of bottler funding is at our discretion because these incentives are not required by the terms of our bottling contracts. Retail consolidation has increased the importance of major customers and further consolidation is expected. Sales to Wal Mart Stores, Inc. represent approximately 9% of our total worldwide net revenue; and our top five retail customers currently represent approximately 26% of our 2005 North American net revenue, with Wal Mart representing approximately 11%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. In addition, sales to The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG) represent approximately 10% of our total net revenue. See Our Related Party Bottlers and Note 8 for more information on our anchor bottlers. Our Related Party Bottlers We have ownership interests in certain of our bottlers. Our ownership is less than 50% and since we do not control these bottlers, we do not consolidate their results. We include our share of their net income based on our percentage of economic ownership in our income statement as bottling equity income. We have designated three related party bottlers, PBG, PepsiAmericas, Inc. (PAS) and Pepsi Bottling Ventures LLC (PBV), as our anchor bottlers. Our anchor bottlers distribute approximately 62% of our North American beverage volume and approximately 19% of our international beverage volume. Our anchor bottlers participate in the bottler funding programs described above. Approximately 8% of our total 2005 sales incentives are related to these bottlers. See Note 8 27 Table of Contents for additional information on these related parties and related party commitments and guarantees. Our Distribution Network Our products are brought to market through direct store delivery, broker warehouse and foodservice and vending distribution networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. Direct Store Delivery We and our bottlers operate direct store delivery systems that deliver snacks and beverages directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our bottlers. Direct store delivery enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. Direct store delivery is especially well suited to products that are restocked often and respond to in store promotion and merchandising. Broker Warehouse Some of our products are delivered from our manufacturing plants and warehouses to customer warehouses and retail stores. These less costly systems generally work best for products that are less fragile and perishable, have lower turnover, and are less likely to be impulse purchases. Foodservice and Vending Our foodservice and vending sales force distributes snacks, foods and beverages to third party foodservice and vending distributors and operators, and for certain beverages, distributes through our bottlers. This distribution system supplies our products to schools, businesses, stadiums, restaurants and similar locations. Our Competition Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality, product variety and effective distribution. In measured channels, our chief beverage competitor, The Coca Cola Company, has a slightly larger share of carbonated soft drink (CSD) consumption in the U.S., while we have a larger share of chilled juices and isotonics. In addition, The Coca Cola Company maintains a significant CSD share advantage in many markets outside North America. Further, our snack brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack industry worldwide. Our snack brands face local and regional competitors, as well as national and global snack competitors, and compete on issues related to price, quality, variety and distribution. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products and the introduction of new products. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allow us to compete effectively. 28 Table of Contents Other Relationships Certain members of our Board of Directors also serve on the boards of certain vendors and customers. Those Board members do not participate in our vendor selection and negotiations nor in our customer negotiations. Our transactions with these vendors and customers are in the normal course of business and are consistent with terms negotiated with other vendors and customers. In addition, certain of our employees serve on the boards of our anchor bottlers and other affiliated companies and do not receive incremental compensation for their Board services. Our Business Risks Our Approach to Managing Risks We are subject to risks in the normal course of business due to adverse developments with respect to: product demand, our reputation, information technology, supply chain, retail consolidation and the loss of major customers, global economic and environmental conditions, the regulatory environment, workforce retention, raw materials and energy, competition, and market risks. Please see Risk Factors in Item 1A. and Market Risks below for more information about these risks. The achievement of our strategic and operating objectives will necessarily involve taking risks. Our risk management process is intended to ensure that risks are taken knowingly and purposefully. As such, we leverage an integrated risk management framework to identify, assess, prioritize, manage, monitor, and communicate risks across the company. This framework includes: the PepsiCo Executive Risk Council (PERC), comprised of a cross functional, geographically diverse, senior management group which identifies, assesses, prioritizes and addresses primarily strategic and reputational risks; Division Risk Committees (DRCs), comprised of cross functional senior management teams which meet regularly each year to identify, assess, prioritize and address division specific operating risks; PepsiCos Risk Management Office, which manages the overall process, provides ongoing guidance, tools and analytical support to the PERC and the DRCs, identifies and assesses potential risks, and facilitates ongoing communication between the parties, as well as to PepsiCos Audit Committee; and 29 Table of Contents PepsiCo Corporate Audit, which confirms the ongoing effectiveness of the risk management framework through periodic audit and review procedures. In 2005, we continued our effort to drive risk mitigation focus to where risks can be most efficiently and effectively managed and reinforced ownership and accountability for risk management within the business. Some highlights include: With respect to product demand, we continued to focus on the development of products that respond to consumer trends, such as consumer health concerns about obesity, product attributes and ingredients, including reformulating products to lower sugar, fats, and sodium; adding ingredients that deliver health benefits; and expanding our offering of portion controlled packages. Smart Spot eligible products continued to be the fastest growing part of our North American product portfolio. We continued to focus on marketing our products in ways that promote healthier lifestyles. We helped create and endorsed the American Beverage Associations new schools policy, which defines the types of products that may be sold in schools. We actively promoted healthy energy balance through our national sponsorship of America On the Move, a program designed to help families take simple steps to maintain a healthy energy balance. We enhanced the coordination of our Division led product integrity efforts through the creation of the PepsiCo Product Integrity Council (PPIC), a cross functional forum to share leading practices and confer about areas of potential risk. We continued to enhance our internal IT infrastructure, by consolidating and updating technology and retiring older technology, as well as improving our information security capabilities. We continued implementation of our BPT initiative, which we believe will enable us to remain in step with the changing needs of our customers. Overall BPT project governance is provided through steering committees headed by senior executives and a team is in place to drive effective risk management and quality processes and to build an internal control environment compliant with the Sarbanes Oxley Act. We continue to assess our capability to mitigate potential business disruptions and evaluate an integrated approach to business disruption management, including disaster recovery, crisis management, and business continuity. We established a compliance and ethics leadership structure, appointing an SVP, Deputy General Counsel who is focusing on business practices and compliance, prioritizing projects to enhance the effectiveness of our compliance and ethics program, including developing a multilingual Code of Conduct training program that will be rolled out in 2006. We have implemented human resource programs which focus on diversity and inclusion, leadership development, succession planning, and employee work life flexibility, and are aimed at hiring, developing, and retaining our talented and motivated workforce. Market Risks We are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in: commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, stock prices, and discount rates affecting the measurement of our pension and retiree medical liabilities. 30 Table of Contents In the normal course of business, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, including productivity initiatives, global purchasing programs and hedging strategies. Ongoing productivity initiatives involve the identification and effective implementation of meaningful cost saving opportunities or efficiencies. Our global purchasing programs include fixed price purchase orders and pricing agreements. Our hedging strategies involve the use of derivatives. Certain derivatives are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges and qualify for hedge accounting treatment, while others do not qualify and are marked to market through earnings. We do not use derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes and we limit our exposure to individual counterparties to manage credit risk. The fair value of our derivatives fluctuates based on market rates and prices. The sensitivity of our derivatives to these market fluctuations is discussed below. See Note 10 for further discussion of these derivatives and our hedging policies. See Our Critical Accounting Policies for a discussion of the exposure of our pension plan assets and pension and retiree medical liabilities to risks related to stock prices and discount rates. Inflationary, deflationary and recessionary conditions impacting these market risks also impact the demand for and pricing of our products. See Risk Factors in Item 1A. for further discussion. Commodity Prices Our open commodity derivative contracts had a face value of $89 million at December 31, 2005 and $155 million at December 25, 2004. The open derivative contracts designated as accounting hedges resulted in net unrecognized gains of $39 million at December 31, 2005 and an unrecognized loss of $1 million at December 25, 2004. We estimate that a 10% decline in commodity prices would have reduced our unrecognized gains on open contracts to $35 million in 2005 and increased our unrecognized losses to $9 million in 2004. The open derivative contracts that were not designated as accounting hedges resulted in net recognized losses of $3 million in 2005 and $2 million in 2004. We estimate that a 10% decline in commodity prices would have increased our recognized losses on open contracts to $4 million in 2005 and to $5 million in 2004. In 2006, we expect continued pricing pressures on our raw materials and energy costs. We expect to be able to mitigate the impact of these increased costs through our hedging strategies and ongoing productivity initiatives. Foreign Exchange Financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using period end exchange rates for assets and liabilities and weighted average exchange rates for revenues and expenses. Adjustments resulting from translating net assets are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within shareholders equity under the caption currency translation adjustment. Our operations outside of the U.S. generate over a third of our net revenue of which Mexico, the United Kingdom and Canada comprise nearly 20%. As a result, we are 31 Table of Contents exposed to foreign currency risks, including unforeseen economic changes and political unrest. During 2005, net favorable foreign currency, primarily increases in the Mexican peso, Brazilian real, and Canadian dollar, contributed over 1 percentage point to net revenue growth. Currency declines which are not offset could adversely impact our future results. Exchange rate gains or losses related to foreign currency transactions are recognized as transaction gains or losses in the income statement as incurred. We may enter into derivatives to manage our exposure to foreign currency transaction risk. Our foreign currency derivatives had a total face value of $1.1 billion at December 31, 2005 and $908 million at December 25, 2004. The contracts designated as accounting hedges resulted in net unrecognized losses of $9 million at December 31, 2005 and $27 million at December 25, 2004. We estimate that an unfavorable 10% change in the exchange rates would have resulted in unrecognized losses of $81 million in 2005 and $110 million in 2004. The contracts not designated as accounting hedges resulted in net recognized gains of $14 million and less than $1 million at December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004, respectively. These gains were almost entirely offset by changes in the underlying hedged items, resulting in no net impact on earnings. Interest Rates We centrally manage our debt and investment portfolios considering investment opportunities and risks, tax consequences and overall financing strategies. We may use interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps to manage our overall interest expense and foreign exchange risk. These instruments effectively change the interest rate and currency of specific debt issuances. These swaps are entered into concurrently with the issuance of the debt that they are intended to modify. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt. Our counterparty credit risk is considered low because these swaps are entered into only with strong creditworthy counterparties, are generally settled on a net basis and are of relatively short duration. Assuming year end 2005 and 2004 variable rate debt and investment levels, a one point increase in interest rates would have decreased net interest expense by $8 million in 2005 and $11 million in 2004. Stock Prices A portion of our deferred compensation liability is tied to certain market indices and our stock price. We manage these market risks with mutual fund investments and prepaid forward contracts for the purchase of our stock. The combined gains or losses on these investments are substantially offset by changes in our deferred compensation liability. 32 Table of Contents OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES An appreciation of our critical accounting policies is necessary to understand our financial results. These policies may require management to make difficult and subjective judgments regarding uncertainties, and as a result, such estimates may significantly impact our financial results. The precision of these estimates and the likelihood of future changes depend on a number of underlying variables and a range of possible outcomes. Other than our accounting for stock based compensation and pension plans, our critical accounting policies do not involve the choice between alternative methods of accounting. We applied our critical accounting policies and estimation methods consistently in all material respects, and for all periods presented, and have discussed these policies with our Audit Committee. In connection with our ongoing BPT initiative, we aligned certain accounting policies across our divisions in 2005. We conformed our methodology for calculating our bad debt reserves and modified our policy for recognizing revenue for products shipped to customers by third party carriers. Additionally, we conformed our method of accounting for certain costs, primarily warehouse and freight. These changes reduced our net revenue by $36 million and our operating profit by $60 million in 2005. We also made certain reclassifications on our Consolidated Statement of Income in the fourth quarter of 2005 from cost of sales to selling, general and administrative expenses in connection with our BPT initiative. These reclassifications resulted in reductions to cost of sales of $556 million through the third quarter of 2005, $732 million in the full year 2004 and $688 million in the full year 2003, with corresponding increases to selling, general and administrative expenses in those periods. These reclassifications had no net impact on operating profit and have been made to all periods presented for comparability. Our critical accounting policies arise in conjunction with the following: revenue recognition, brand and goodwill valuations, income tax expense and accruals, stock based compensation expense, and pension and retiree medical plans. Revenue Recognition Our products are sold for cash or on credit terms. Our credit terms, which are established in accordance with local and industry practices, typically require payment within 30 days of delivery in the U.S. and may allow discounts for early payment. We recognize revenue upon shipment or delivery to our customers based on written sales terms that do not allow for a right of return. However, our policy for DSD and chilled products is to remove and replace damaged and out of date products from store shelves to ensure that consumers receive the product quality and freshness they expect. Similarly, our policy for warehouse distributed products is to replace damaged and out of date products. Based on our historical experience with this practice, we have reserved for anticipated damaged and out of date products. Our bottlers have a similar replacement policy and are responsible for the products they distribute. 33 Table of Contents Our policy is to provide customers with product when needed. In fact, our commitment to freshness and product dating serves to regulate the quantity of product shipped or delivered. In addition, DSD products are placed on the shelf by our employees with customer shelf space limiting the quantity of product. For product delivered through our other distribution networks, customer inventory levels are monitored. As discussed in Our Customers, we offer sales incentives and discounts through various programs to customers and consumers. Sales incentives and discounts are accounted for as a reduction of sales and totaled $8.9 billion in 2005, $7.8 billion in 2004 and $7.1 billion in 2003. Sales incentives include payments to customers for performing merchandising activities on our behalf, such as payments for in store displays, payments to gain distribution of new products, payments for shelf space and discounts to promote lower retail prices. A number of our sales incentives, such as bottler funding and customer volume rebates, are based on annual targets, and accruals are established during the year for the expected payout. These accruals are based on contract terms and our historical experience with similar programs and require management judgment with respect to estimating customer participation and performance levels. Differences between estimated expense and actual incentive costs are normally insignificant and are recognized in earnings in the period such differences are determined. The terms of most of our incentive arrangements do not exceed a year, and therefore do not require highly uncertain long term estimates. For interim reporting, we estimate total annual sales incentives for most of our programs and record a pro rata share in proportion to revenue. Certain arrangements extend beyond one year. For example, fountain pouring rights may extend up to 15 years. The costs incurred to obtain these arrangements are recognized over the contract period as a reduction of revenue, and the remaining balances of $321 million at year end 2005 and $337 million at year end 2004 are included in current assets and other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We estimate and reserve for our bad debt exposure based on our experience with past due accounts. In 2005, our method of determining the reserves was conformed across our divisions in connection with our BPT initiative, as discussed above. Bad debt expense is classified within selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Brand and Goodwill Valuations We sell products under a number of brand names, many of which were developed by us. The brand development costs are expensed as incurred. We also purchase brands and goodwill in acquisitions. Upon acquisition, the purchase price is first allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities, including brands, based on estimated fair value, with any remaining purchase price recorded as goodwill. We believe that a brand has an indefinite life if it has significant market share in a stable macroeconomic environment and a history of strong revenue and cash flow performance that we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual brand criteria are not met, brands are amortized over their expected useful lives, which generally range from five to 40 years. Determining the expected life of a brand requires considerable management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors, including 34 Table of Contents the competitive environment, market share, brand history and the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the brand is sold. Goodwill, including the goodwill that is part of our noncontrolled bottling investment balances, and perpetual brands are not amortized. Perpetual brands and goodwill are assessed for impairment at least annually to ensure that discounted future cash flows continue to exceed the related book value. A perpetual brand is impaired if its book value exceeds its fair value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment if the book value of its reporting unit exceeds its fair value. A reporting unit can be a division or business within a division. If the fair value of an evaluated asset is less than its book value, the asset is written down to fair value based on its discounted future cash flows. Amortizable brands are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating or macroeconomic environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on its discounted future cash flows. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate future cash flows. Assumptions used in our impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are consistent with our internal forecasts and operating plans. These assumptions could be adversely impacted by certain of the risks discussed in Risk Factors in Item 1A. We did not recognize any impairment charges for perpetual brands or goodwill in the years presented. As of December 31, 2005, we had $5.2 billion of perpetual brands and goodwill, of which 70% related to Tropicana and Walkers. Income Tax Expense and Accruals Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are subject to challenge and that we may not succeed. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit. See Note 5 for additional information regarding our tax reserves. An estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to our quarterly operating results. In the event there is a significant or unusual item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is separately calculated and recorded at the same time as that item. We consider the tax benefits from the resolution of prior year tax matters to be such items. Tax law requires items to be included in our tax returns at different times than the items are reflected in our financial statements. As a result, our annual tax rate reflected in our financial statements is different than that reported in our tax returns (our cash tax rate). 35 Table of Contents Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in our tax returns in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets when we believe expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of a deduction or credit in that tax jurisdiction. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which we have already taken a deduction in our tax return but we have not yet recognized as expense in our financial statements. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA) created a one time incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed international earnings by providing an 85% dividends received deduction. As approved by our Board of Directors in July 2005, we repatriated approximately $7.5 billion in earnings previously considered indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2005. In 2005, we recorded income tax expense of $460 million associated with this repatriation. Other than the earnings repatriated, we intend to continue to reinvest earnings outside the U.S. for the foreseeable future and therefore have not recognized any U.S. tax expense on these earnings. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately $7.5 billion of undistributed international earnings. In 2005, our annual tax rate for continuing operations was 36.1% compared to 24.7% in 2004 as discussed in Other Consolidated Results. The tax rate in 2005 increased 11.4 percentage points primarily as a result of the AJCA tax charge and the absence of the 2004 tax benefits related to the favorable resolution of certain open tax items. For 2006, our annual tax rate is expected to be 28.0%, primarily reflecting the absence of the AJCA tax charge and changes in our concentrate sourcing around the world. Stock Based Compensation Expense We believe that we will achieve our best results if our employees act and are rewarded as business owners. Therefore, we believe stock ownership and stock based incentive awards are the best way to align the interests of employees with those of our shareholders. Historically, following competitive market practices, we have used stock option grants as our primary form of long term incentive compensation. These grants are made at the current stock price, meaning each employees exercise price is equivalent to our stock price on the date of grant. Employees must generally provide three additional years of service to earn the grant, referred to as the vesting period. Our options generally have a 10 year term, which means our employees would have up to seven years after the vesting period to elect to pay the exercise price to purchase one share of our stock for each option exercised. Employees benefit from stock options to the extent our stock price appreciates above the exercise price after vesting and during the term of the grant. There have been no reductions to the exercise price of previously issued awards, and any repricing of awards would require approval of our shareholders. 36 Table of Contents Our new executive compensation program, which became effective in 2004, strengthens the relationship between pay and individual performance through greater differentiation in the amount of base pay, bonus and stock based compensation based on an employees job level and performance. The new program results in a shift of both cash and stock based compensation to our top performing executives. In addition, our new program provides executives, who are awarded long term incentives based on their performance, with a choice of stock options or restricted stock units (RSUs). RSU expense is based on the fair value of PepsiCo stock on the date of grant and is amortized over the vesting period, generally three years. Each restricted stock unit can be settled in a share of our stock after the vesting period. Executives who elect RSUs receive one RSU for every four stock options that would have otherwise been granted. Senior officers do not have a choice and are granted 50% stock options and 50% RSUs. Vesting of RSU awards for senior officers is contingent upon the achievement of pre established performance targets. We also continued, as we have since 1989, to grant an annual award of stock options to all eligible employees, based on job level or classification under our broad based stock option program, SharePower. As part of the new compensation program which began in 2004, the SharePower program grant was reduced by approximately 50% for employees in the U.S. and replaced with matching contributions of PepsiCo stock to our 401(k) savings plans. We did not reduce the SharePower award for international employees and continued using tenure, in addition to job level and classification, as a basis for the award. For additional information on our 401(k) savings plans, see Note 7. Method of Accounting We account for our employee stock options under the fair value method of accounting using a Black Scholes valuation model to measure stock based compensation expense at the date of grant. We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 123R, Share Based Payment, under the modified prospective method in the first quarter of 2006. We do not expect our adoption of SFAS 123R to materially impact our financial statements. Our divisions are held accountable for stock based compensation expense and, therefore, this expense is allocated to our divisions as an incremental employee compensation cost. The allocation of stock based compensation expense is approximately 29% to FLNA, 22% to PBNA, 31% to PI, 4% to QFNA and 14% to corporate unallocated expenses. The expense allocated to our divisions excludes any impact of changes in our Black Scholes assumptions during the year which reflect market conditions over which division management has no control. Therefore, any variances between allocated expense and our actual expense are recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. Our Assumptions Our Black Scholes model estimates the expected value our employees will receive from the options based on a number of assumptions, such as interest rates, employee exercises, 37 Table of Contents our stock price and dividend yield. Our weighted average fair value assumptions include: Estimated 2006 2005 2004 2003 Expected life 6 yrs. 6 yrs. 6 yrs. 6 yrs. Risk free interest rate 3.8% 3.8% 3.3% 3.1% Expected volatility 21% 23% 26% 27% Expected dividend yield 1.9% 1.8% 1.8% 1.15% The expected life is a significant assumption as it determines the period for which the risk free interest rate, volatility and dividend yield must be applied. The expected life is the period over which our employee groups are expected to hold their options. It is based on our historical experience with similar grants. The risk free interest rate is based on the expected U.S. Treasury rate over the expected life. Volatility reflects movements in our stock price over the most recent historical period equivalent to the expected life. Dividend yield is estimated over the expected life based on our stated dividend policy and forecasts of net income, share repurchases and stock price. 2006 Estimated Expense and Sensitivity of Assumptions Our stock based compensation expense, including RSUs, is as follows: Estimated2006 2005 2004 Stock based compensation expense $296 $311 $368 If we assumed a 100 basis point change in the following assumptions, our estimated 2006 stock based compensation expense would increase/(decrease) as follows: 100 Basis Point Increase 100 Basis PointDecrease Risk free interest rate $6 $(6) Expected volatility $2 $(2) Expected dividend yield $(9) $10 If the expected life were assumed to be one year longer, our estimated 2006 stock based compensation expense would increase by $12 million. If the expected life were assumed to be one year shorter, our estimated 2006 stock based compensation expense would decrease by $7 million. As noted, changing the assumed expected life impacts all of the Black Scholes valuation assumptions as the risk free interest rate, expected volatility and expected dividend yield are estimated over the expected life. 38 Table of Contents Pension and Retiree Medical Plans Our pension plans cover full time employees in the U.S. and certain international employees. Benefits are determined based on either years of service or a combination of years of service and earnings. U.S. retirees are also eligible for medical and life insurance benefits (retiree medical) if they meet age and service requirements. Generally, our share of retiree medical costs is capped at specified dollar amounts that vary based upon years of service, with retirees contributing the remainder of the cost. Our Assumptions The determination of pension and retiree medical plan obligations and associated expenses requires the use of assumptions to estimate the amount of the benefits that employees earn while working, as well as the present value of those benefits. Annual pension and retiree medical expense amounts are principally based on four components: (1) the value of benefits earned by employees for working during the year (service cost), (2) increase in the liability due to the passage of time (interest cost), and (3) other gains and losses as discussed below, reduced by (4) expected return on plan assets for our funded plans. Significant assumptions used to measure our annual pension and retiree medical expense include: the interest rate used to determine the present value of liabilities (discount rate); certain employee related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality; for pension expense, the expected return on assets in our funded plans and the rate of salary increases for plans where benefits are based on earnings; and for retiree medical expense, health care cost trend rates. Our assumptions reflect our historical experience and managements best judgment regarding future expectations. Some of these assumptions require significant management judgment and could have a material impact on the measurement of our pension and retiree medical benefit expenses and obligations. The assumptions used to measure our annual pension and retiree medical expenses are determined as of September 30 (measurement date) and all plan assets and liabilities are generally reported as of that date. At each measurement date, the discount rate is based on interest rates for high quality, long term corporate debt securities with maturities comparable to our liabilities. In the U.S., we utilize the Moodys AA Corporate Index yield and adjust for the differences between the average duration of the bonds in this Index and the average duration of our benefits liabilities based upon a published index. The expected return on pension plan assets is based on our historical experience, our pension plan investment strategy and our expectations for long term rates of return. Our pension plan investment strategy is reviewed annually and is based upon plan liabilities, an evaluation of market conditions, tolerance for risk, and cash requirements for benefit payments. We use a third party advisor to assist us in determining our investment allocation and modeling our long term rate of return assumptions. Our current investment allocation target for our U.S. plans is 60% in equity securities, with the balance in fixed income securities and cash. Our expected long term rate of return assumptions on U.S. plan assets is 7.8%, reflecting an estimated long term return of 9.3% 39 Table of Contents from equity securities and an estimated 5.8% from fixed income securities. Approximately 80% of our pension plan assets relate to our U.S. plans. We use a market related value method that recognizes each years asset gain or loss over a five year period. Therefore, it takes five years for the gain or loss from any one year to be fully included in the other gains and losses calculation described below. Other gains and losses resulting from actual experience differing from our assumptions and from changes in our assumptions are also determined at each measurement date. If this net accumulated gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of plan assets or liabilities, a portion of the net gain or loss is included in expense for the following year. The cost or benefit of plan changes which increase or decrease benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost) is included in expense on a straight line basis over the average remaining service period of those expected to benefit, which is approximately 11 years for pension expense and approximately 13 years for retiree medical. Weighted average assumptions for pension and retiree medical expense are the following: 2006 2005 2004 Pension Expense discount rate 5.6% 6.1% 6.1% Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.7% 7.8% 7.8% Expected rate of compensation increases 4.4% 4.3% 4.4% Retiree medical Expense discount rate 5.7% 6.1% 6.1% Current health care cost trend rate 10.0% 11.0% 12.0% Future Expense An analysis of the estimated change in pension and retiree medical expense follows: Pension Retiree Medical 2005 expense $ 329 $ 135 Decrease in discount rate 84 6 Increase in experience loss/(gain) amortization 69 (3 ) Impact of contributions (63 ) Other, including impact of 2003 Medicare Act (14 ) (12 ) 2006 estimated expense $ 405 $ 126 Our 2006 pension expense is estimated to be approximately $405 million and retiree medical expense is estimated to be approximately $126 million. These estimates incorporate the 2006 assumptions, as well as the impact of the increased pension plan assets resulting from our discretionary contributions of $729 million in 2005 and the impact of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (Medicare Act) as discussed in Note 7. Changes in our 2006 assumptions include updates to the lump sum discount rate for the U.S. plans and to the mortality tables for 40 Table of Contents certain international plans. The estimated increase of $69 million in net experience loss amortization included in estimated 2006 pension expense primarily reflects the recognition of lower than expected returns and past asset losses, which account for approximately $36 million of the increase, as well as assumption changes and demographic experience, which account for approximately $20 million of the increase. Pension service costs, measured at a fixed discount rate but including the effect of demographic assumption changes, as well as the effects of gains and losses due to demographics, are reflected in division results. The effect of changes in discount and asset return rates, gains and losses other than those due to demographics, and the impact of funding are reflected in corporate unallocated expenses. Approximately $26 million of the increased pension and retiree medical expense in 2006 will be reflected in corporate unallocated expenses. Based on our current assumptions which reflect our prior experience, current plan provisions, and expectations for future experience, and assuming the Board approves annual discretionary contributions of approximately $200 million, we expect our pension expense to remain relatively flat in 2007. In 2008, we expect our pension expense to begin to decline, with the expense dropping to approximately $305 million by 2011 as unrecognized experience losses are amortized. If our assumptions and our plan provisions for retiree medical remain unchanged and our experience mirrors these assumptions, we expect our annual retiree medical expense beyond 2006 to approximate $130 million. Sensitivity of Assumptions A decrease in the discount rate or in the expected rate of return assumptions would increase pension expense. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate on 2006 pension expense is an increase of approximately $39 million. The estimated impact on 2006 pension expense of a 25 basis point decrease in the expected rate of return assumption is an increase of approximately $16 million. See Note 7 regarding the sensitivity of our retiree medical cost assumptions. Future Funding We make contributions to pension trusts maintained to provide plan benefits for certain pension plans. These contributions are made in accordance with applicable tax regulations that provide for current tax deductions for our contributions, and taxation to the employee only upon receipt of plan benefits. Generally, we do not fund our pension plans when our contributions would not be currently deductible. Our pension contributions for 2005 were $803 million, of which $729 million was discretionary. In 2006, we expect contributions to be about $250 million with approximately $200 million expected to be discretionary. Our cash payments for retiree medical are estimated to be $85 million in 2006. As our retiree medical plans are not subject to regulatory funding requirements, we fund these plans on a pay as you go basis. 41 Table of Contents For estimated future benefit payments, including our pay as you go payments as well as those from trusts, see Note 7. Recent Accounting Pronouncements There have been no new accounting pronouncements issued or effective during 2005 that have had, or are expected to have, a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 42 Table of Contents OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS Items Affecting Comparability The year over year comparisons of our financial results are affected by the following items: 2005 2004 Net revenue 53rd week $ 418 Operating profit 53rd week $ 75 2005 restructuring charges $ (83 ) 2004 restructuring and impairment charges $ (150 ) Net income AJCA tax charge $ (460 ) 53rd week $ 57 2005 restructuring charges $ (55 ) 2004 restructuring and impairment charges $ (96 ) Net tax benefits continuing operations $ 266 Tax benefit from discontinued operations $ 38 Net income per common share diluted AJCA tax charge $ (0.27 ) 53rd week $ 0.03 2005 restructuring charges $ (0.03 ) 2004 restructuring and impairment charges $ (0.06 ) Net tax benefits continuing operations $ 0.15 Tax benefit from discontinued operations $ 0.02 For the items and accounting changes affecting our 2003 results, see Note 1 and our 2003 Annual Report. 53rd week In 2005, we had an additional week of results (53rd week). Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December, resulting in an additional week of results every five or six years. 2005 Restructuring Charges In the fourth quarter of 2005, we incurred restructuring charges of $83 million to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions. 2004 Restructuring and Impairment Charges In the fourth quarter of 2004, we incurred restructuring and impairment charges of $150 million in conjunction with the consolidation of FLNAs manufacturing network in 43 Table of Contents connection with its ongoing productivity program. Savings from this productivity program have been used to offset increased marketplace spending. AJCA Tax Charge As approved by our Board of Directors in July 2005, in the fourth quarter of 2005 we repatriated approximately $7.5 billion in earnings previously considered indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. in connection with the AJCA. In 2005, we recorded income tax expense of $460 million associated with this repatriation. Net Tax Benefits Continuing Operations In the fourth quarter of 2004, we recognized $45 million of tax benefits related to the completion of the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit for pre merger Quaker open tax years. In the third quarter of 2004, we recognized $221 million of tax benefits related to a reduction in foreign tax accruals following the resolution of certain open tax issues with foreign tax authorities, and a refund claim related to prior U.S. tax settlements. Tax Benefit from Discontinued Operations In the fourth quarter of 2004, we reached agreement with the IRS for an open issue related to our discontinued restaurant operations which resulted in a tax benefit of $38 million. Results of Continuing Operations Consolidated Review In the discussions of net revenue and operating profit below, effective net pricing reflects the year over year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in different package sizes and in different countries. Servings Since our divisions each use different measures of physical unit volume (i.e., kilos, pounds and case sales), a common servings metric is necessary to reflect our consolidated physical unit volume. Our divisions physical volume measures are converted into servings based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines for single serving sizes of our products. Total servings increased 7% in 2005 compared to 2004 as servings for beverages worldwide grew over 7% and servings for snacks worldwide grew 6%. All of our divisions positively contributed to the total servings growth. Total servings increased 6% in 2004 compared to 2003 as servings for beverages worldwide grew 7% and servings for snacks worldwide grew over 5%. 44 Table of Contents Net Revenue and Operating Profit Change 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Division net revenues $ 32,562 $ 29,261 $ 26,969 11 % 8 % Divested businesses 2 Total net revenue $ 32,562 $ 29,261 $ 26,971 11 % 8 % Division operating profit $ 6,710 $ 6,098 $ 5,463 10 % 12 % Corporate unallocated (788 ) (689 ) (502 ) 14 % 38 % Merger related costs (59 ) Impairment and restructuring charges (150 ) (147 ) Divested businesses 26 Total operating profit $ 5,922 $ 5,259 $ 4,781 13 % 10 % Division operating profit margin 20.6 % 20.8 % 20.3 % (0.2 ) 0.5 Total operating profit margin 18.2 % 18.0 % 17.7 % 0.2 0.3 2005 Net revenue increased 11% reflecting, across all divisions, increased volume, favorable effective net pricing, and net favorable foreign currency movements. The volume gains contributed 6 percentage points, the effective net pricing contributed 3 percentage points and the net favorable foreign currency movements contributed over 1 percentage point. The 53rd week contributed over 1 percentage point to revenue growth and almost 1 percentage point to volume growth. Total operating profit increased 13% and margin increased 0.2 percentage points. Division operating profit increased 10% and margin decreased 0.2 percentage points. The operating profit gains primarily reflect leverage from the revenue growth, partially offset by higher selling and distribution (S&D) expenses and increased cost of sales, largely due to higher raw materials, energy, and S&D labor costs, as well as higher advertising and marketing expenses. In 2005, division operating profit margin reflects our current year restructuring actions, while total operating profit margin benefited from a favorable comparison to prior year restructuring and impairment charges. The additional week in 2005 contributed over 1 percentage point to both total and division operating profit growth. 2004 Division net revenue increased 8%, primarily due to strong volume gains across all divisions, favorable product mix, primarily at PBNA and PI, and net favorable foreign currency movements. The volume gains contributed over 4 percentage points, the 45 Table of Contents favorable mix contributed almost 2 percentage points, and the net favorable foreign currency contributed almost 2 percentage points to division net revenue growth. Total operating profit increased 10% and margin increased 0.3 percentage points. Division operating profit increased 12% and division margin increased 0.5 percentage points. These gains reflect leverage from the revenue growth, partially offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses, primarily corporate unallocated expenses. In addition, total operating profit growth reflects the absence of merger related costs in 2004. Corporate Unallocated Expenses Corporate unallocated expenses include the costs of our corporate headquarters, centrally managed initiatives such as our BPT initiative, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, foreign exchange transaction and certain commodity derivative gains and losses, as well as profit in inventory elimination adjustments for our noncontrolled bottling affiliates and certain other items. In 2005, corporate unallocated expenses increased 14%. This increase primarily reflects higher costs associated with our BPT initiative which contributed 7 percentage points, increased support behind health and wellness and innovation initiatives which contributed 5 percentage points, and Corporate departmental expenses and restructuring charges which each contributed 2 percentage points to the increase. In 2005, items of a non recurring nature included charges of $55 million to conform our method of accounting across all divisions, primarily for warehouse and freight costs, and a gain of $25 million in connection with the settlement of a class action lawsuit related to our purchases of high fructose corn syrup from 1991 to 1995. In 2004, we recorded a charge of $50 million for the settlement of a contractual dispute with a former business partner. In 2004, corporate unallocated expenses increased 38%. Higher employee related costs contributed 18 percentage points of the increase, an accrual recognized in the fourth quarter for the settlement of a contractual dispute with a former business partner represented 10 percentage points of the increase and higher costs related to our BPT initiative contributed 4 percentage points of the increase. Corporate departmental expenses increased 2% compared to prior year. 46 Table of Contents Other Consolidated Results Change 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Bottling equity income $ 557 $ 380 $ 323 46 % 18 % Interest expense, net $ (97 ) $ (93 ) $ (112 ) 4 % (17 )% Annual tax rate 36.1 % 24.7 % 28.5 % Net income continuing operations $ 4,078 $ 4,174 $ 3,568 (2 )% 17 % Net income per common share continuing operations diluted $ 2.39 $ 2.41 $ 2.05 (1 )% 18 % Bottling equity income includes our share of the net income or loss of our noncontrolled bottling affiliates as described in Our Customers. Our interest in these bottling investments may change from time to time. Any gains or losses from these changes, as well as other transactions related to our bottling investments, are also included on a pre tax basis. We continue to sell shares of PBG stock to trim our ownership to the level at the time of PBGs initial public offering, since our ownership has increased as a result of PBGs share repurchase program. During 2005, we sold 7.5 million shares of PBG stock. The resulting lower ownership percentage reduces the equity income from PBG that we recognize. 2005 Bottling equity income increased 46% reflecting $126 million of pre tax gains on our sales of PBG stock, as well as stronger bottler results. In the first quarter of 2006, PBG and PAS adopted SFAS 123R which will negatively impact our bottling equity income. Net interest expense increased 4% reflecting the impact of higher debt levels, substantially offset by higher investment rates and cash balances. The tax rate increased 11.4 percentage points reflecting the $460 million tax charge related to our repatriation of undistributed international earnings, as well as the absence of income tax benefits of $266 million recorded in the prior year related to a reduction in foreign tax accruals following the resolution of certain open tax items with foreign tax authorities and a refund claim related to prior U.S. tax settlements. This increase was partially offset by increased international profit which is taxed at a lower rate. Net income from continuing operations decreased 2% and the related net income per common share from continuing operations decreased 1%. These decreases reflect the impact of the tax items discussed above, partially offset by our operating profit growth, increased bottling equity income, which includes the gain on our PBG stock sale, the 47 Table of Contents impact of the 53rd week, a favorable comparison to prior year restructuring and impairment charges, and for net income per share, the impact of our share repurchases. 2004 Bottling equity income increased 18%, primarily reflecting increased earnings from our anchor bottlers and favorable comparisons from international bottling investments, primarily as a result of the nationwide strike in Venezuela in early 2003. Net interest expense declined 17% primarily due to favorable interest rates and higher average cash balances, partially offset by higher average debt balances and lower gains in the market value of investments used to economically hedge a portion of our deferred compensation liability. The offsetting increase in deferred compensation costs is reported in corporate unallocated expenses. The annual tax rate decreased 3.8 percentage points compared to the prior year, primarily as a result of tax benefits from the resolution of open items with tax authorities in both years, as discussed in Items Affecting Comparability. The tax benefits reduced our tax rate by 2.6 percentage points. Increased benefit from concentrate operations and favorable changes arising from agreements with the IRS in the fourth quarter of 2003 also contributed to the decline in rate. Net income from continuing operations increased 17% and the related net income per common share from continuing operations increased 18%. These increases primarily reflect the solid operating profit growth and our lower annual tax rate. The absence of merger related costs in 2004 and increased bottling equity income also contributed to the growth. 48 Table of Contents Results of Continuing Operations Division Review The results and discussions below are based on how our Chief Executive Officer monitors the performance of our divisions. Prior year amounts exclude the results of divested businesses. For additional information on these items and our divisions, see Note 1. FLNA PBNA PI QFNA Total Net Revenue, 2005 $ 10,322 $ 9,146 $ 11,376 $ 1,718 $ 32,562 Net Revenue, 2004 $ 9,560 $ 8,313 $ 9,862 $ 1,526 $ 29,261 % Impact of: Volume 4.5 % 4 %(a) 8 %(a) 9 % 6 % Effective net pricing 3 5 2.5 3 3 Foreign exchange 0.5 3 1 1 Acquisition/divestitures 2 0.5 % Change(b) 8 % 10 % 15 % 13 % 11 % FLNA PBNA PI QFNA DivestedBusinesses Total Net Revenue, 2004 $ 9,560 $ 8,313 $ 9,862 $ 1,526 $ 29,261 Net Revenue, 2003 $ 9,091 $ 7,733 $ 8,678 $ 1,467 $ 2 $ 26,971 % Impact of: Volume 3 % 3 %(a) 7 %(a) 3 % 4 % Effective net pricing 2 4 2 2 Foreign exchange 4 1 2 Acquisition/divestitures 1 % Change(b) 5 % 7 % 14 % 4 % N/A 8 % (a) For beverages sold to our bottlers, net revenue volume growth is based on our concentrate shipments and equivalents. (b) Amounts may not sum due to rounding. 49 Table of Contents Frito Lay North America % Change 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Net revenue $ 10,322 $ 9,560 $ 9,091 8 5 Operating profit $ 2,529 $ 2,389 $ 2,242 6 7 2005 Net revenue grew 8% reflecting volume growth of 4.5% and positive effective net pricing driven by salty snack pricing actions and favorable mix on both salty and convenience foods products. Pound volume grew primarily due to mid single digit growth in trademark Lays potato chips, high single digit growth in salty trademark Tostitos, double digit growth in Santitas, mid single digit growth in trademark Cheetos, high single digit growth in Dips and Fritos, and double digit growth in Sun Chips. These gains were partially offset by the discontinuance of Toastables and Doritos Rollitos. Overall, salty snacks revenue grew 8% with volume growth of 5%, and convenience foods products revenue grew 13% with volume growth of 1%. Convenience foods products revenue benefited from favorable mix. The additional week contributed 2 percentage points to volume and net revenue growth. Operating profit grew 6% reflecting positive effective net pricing actions and volume growth. This growth was offset by higher S&D costs resulting from increased labor and benefit charges and fuel costs; higher cost of sales, driven by raw materials, natural gas and freight; and increased advertising and marketing costs. Operating profit was also negatively impacted by more than 1 percentage point as a result of fourth quarter charges to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions. The additional week contributed 2 percentage points to operating profit growth. Products qualifying for our new Smart Spot program represented approximately 13% of net revenue. These products experienced double digit revenue growth, while the balance of the portfolio had high single digit revenue growth. See our website at www.smartspot.com for additional information on our Smart Spot program. 2004 Net revenue grew 5% reflecting volume growth of 3% and positive effective net pricing due to salty snack pricing actions and favorable mix. Pound volume grew primarily due to new products, single digit growth in Lays Classic potato chips, strong double digit growth in Variety Pack and mid single digit growth in Tostitos and Fried Cheetos. Lays Stax and Doritos Rollitos led the new product growth. These gains were partially offset by single digit declines in Doritos and Fritos and double digit declines in Rold Gold and Quaker Toastables. 50 Table of Contents Operating profit grew nearly 7% reflecting the positive pricing actions and volume growth. Higher commodity costs, driven by corn oil and energy costs were largely offset by cost leverage generated from ongoing productivity initiatives. Smart Spot eligible products represented approximately 10% of 2004 FLNA net revenue. These products experienced high single digit revenue growth and the balance of the portfolio had mid single digit revenue growth. PepsiCo Beverages North America % Change 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Net revenue $ 9,146 $ 8,313 $ 7,733 10 7 Operating profit $ 2,037 $ 1,911 $ 1,690 7 13 2005 Net revenue grew 10% and volume grew 4%. The volume increase was driven by a 16% increase in non carbonated beverages, partially offset by a 1% decline in CSDs. Within non carbonated beverages, Gatorade, Trademark Aquafina, Tropicana juice drinks, Propel and SoBe all experienced double digit growth. Above average summer temperatures across the country, as well as the launch of new products such as Aquafina FlavorSplash and Gatorade Lemonade earlier in the year, drove Gatorade and Trademark Aquafina growth. Tropicana Pure Premium experienced a low single digit decline resulting from price increases taken in the first quarter. The decline in CSDs reflects low single digit declines in Trademark Pepsi and Trademark Mountain Dew, slightly offset by low single digit growth in Sierra Mist. Across the brands, a low single digit decline in regular CSDs was partially offset by low single digit growth in diet CSDs. The additional week in 2005 had no significant impact on volume growth as bottler volume is reported based on a calendar month. Net revenue also benefited from 5 percentage points of favorable effective net pricing, reflecting the continued migration from CSDs to non carbonated beverages and price increases taken in the first quarter, primarily on concentrate and Tropicana Pure Premium, partially offset by increased trade spending in the current year. The additional week in 2005 contributed 1 percentage point to net revenue growth. Operating profit increased nearly 7%, primarily reflecting net revenue growth. This increase was partially offset by higher raw material, energy, and transportation costs, as well as increased advertising and marketing expenses. The additional week in 2005 contributed 1 percentage point to operating profit growth and was fully offset by a 1 percentage point decline related to charges taken in the fourth quarter of 2005 to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions. 51 Table of Contents Smart Spot eligible products represented almost 70% of net revenue. These products experienced double digit revenue growth, while the balance of the portfolio grew in the low single digit range. 2004 Net revenue increased 7% and volume increased 3%. The volume increase reflects non carbonated beverage growth of 10% and a slight increase in CSDs. The non carbonated beverage growth was fueled by double digit growth in Gatorade, Aquafina and Propel, as well as the introduction of bottler distributed Tropicana juice drinks. Tropicana Pure Premium increased slightly for the year. The carbonated soft drink performance reflects a low single digit increase in Trademark Mountain Dew and a slight increase in Trademark Sierra Mist, offset by a slight decline in Trademark Pepsi. Across the trademarks, high single digit diet CSD growth was substantially offset by a low single digit decline in regular CSDs. The increase in Trademark Mountain Dew reflects growth in both Diet and regular Mountain Dew and the limited time only offering of Mountain Dew Pitch Black, substantially offset by declines in both Mountain Dew Code Red and LiveWire. The performance of Trademark Pepsi reflects declines in regular Pepsi, Pepsi Twist and Pepsi Blue, mostly offset by increases in Diet Pepsi and the introduction of Pepsi Edge. Favorable product mix contributed 3 percentage points to net revenue growth, primarily reflecting a migration to non carbonated beverages. Additionally, concentrate and fountain price increases taken in the first quarter contributed 1 percentage point to net revenue growth. Operating profit increased 13% reflecting the net revenue growth, partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative costs, as well as costs related to marketplace initiatives. Smart Spot eligible products represented over 60% of net revenue. These products experienced high single digit revenue growth, and the balance of the portfolio had mid single digit revenue growth. PepsiCo International % Change 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Net revenue $ 11,376 $ 9,862 $ 8,678 15 14 Operating profit $ 1,607 $ 1,323 $ 1,061 21 25 2005 International snacks volume grew 7%, reflecting growth of 11% in the Europe, Middle East & Africa region, 5% in the Latin America region and 6% in the Asia Pacific region. Acquisition and divestiture activity, principally the divestiture last year of our interest in a South Korea joint venture, reduced Asia region volume by 11 percentage points. The 52 Table of Contents acquisition of a business in Romania late in 2004 increased the Europe, Middle East & Africa region volume growth by 3 percentage points. Cumulatively, our divestiture and acquisition activities did not impact the reported total PepsiCo International snack volume growth rate. The overall gains reflected mid single digit growth at Sabritas in Mexico, double digit growth in India, Turkey, Russia, Australia and China, partially offset by a low single digit decline at Walkers in the United Kingdom. The decline at Walkers is due principally to marketplace pressures. The additional week contributed 1 percentage point to international snack volume growth. Beverage volume grew 11%, reflecting growth of 14% in the Europe, Middle East & Africa region, 11% in the Asia Pacific region and 6% in the Latin America region. Acquisitions had no significant impact on the reported total PepsiCo International beverage volume growth rate. Broad based increases were led by double digit growth in the Middle East, China, Argentina, Venezuela and Russia. Carbonated soft drinks and non carbonated beverages both grew at a double digit rate. The additional week had no impact on beverage volume growth as volume is reported based on a calendar month. Net revenue grew 15%, primarily as a result of the broad based volume growth and favorable effective net pricing. Foreign currency contributed almost 3 percentage points of growth reflecting the favorable Mexican peso and Brazilian real, partially offset by the unfavorable British pound. Acquisitions and divestitures contributed almost 2 percentage points of growth. The additional week contributed 1 percentage point to revenue growth. Cumulatively, the impact of foreign currency, acquisitions and divestitures, and the additional week on net revenue was 5 percentage points. Operating profit grew 21% driven largely by the broad based volume growth and favorable effective net pricing, partially offset by increased energy and raw material costs. Foreign currency contributed 4 percentage points of growth based on the favorable Mexican peso and Brazilian real. The net favorable impact from acquisition and divestiture activity, primarily the acquisition of General Mills minority interest in Snack Ventures Europe in Q1 2005, contributed 2 percentage points of growth. The additional week contributed 1 percentage point to operating profit growth which was fully offset by a 1 percentage point decline in operating profit growth related to fourth quarter charges to reduce costs in our operations and rationalize capacity. 2004 International snacks volume grew 8%, comprised of 7% in our Latin America region, 8% in our Europe, Middle East & Africa region and 14% in our Asia Pacific region. These gains were driven by high single digit growth at Sabritas in Mexico, strong double digit growth in India, low single digit growth at Gamesa in Mexico coupled with double digit growth in Egypt, Venezuela, Turkey and Brazil. Beverage volume grew 12%, comprised of 14% in our Europe, Middle East & Africa region, 15% in our Asia Pacific region and 8% in our Latin America region. Broad based increases were led by double digit growth in the Middle East and China, high single digit growth in Mexico and double digit growth in India, Germany, Russia and Venezuela. 53 Table of Contents Favorable comparisons as a result of the 2003 national strike in Venezuela and the German deposit law impact contributed to the growth in Venezuela and Germany. Both carbonated soft drinks and non carbonated beverages grew at double digit rates. Net revenue grew 14% driven by the broad based volume growth and favorable mix. Foreign currency impact contributed 4 percentage points of growth driven by the favorable British pound and euro, partially offset by the unfavorable Mexican peso. Acquisitions contributed less than 1 percentage point. Operating profit grew 25% driven largely by the volume and favorable mix. The favorable comparison of certain reserve actions taken in 2003 on potentially unrecoverable beverage assets contributed 2 percentage points of growth. Foreign currency impact contributed almost 3 percentage points of growth driven by the favorable British pound and euro, partially offset by the unfavorable Mexican peso. Quaker Foods North America % Change 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Net revenue $ 1,718 $ 1,526 $ 1,467 13 4 Operating profit $ 537 $ 475 $ 470 13 1 2005 Net revenue increased 13% and volume increased 9%. The volume increase reflects double digit growth in Oatmeal, Aunt Jemima syrup and mix, Rice A Roni and Pasta Roni, as well as high single digit growth in Capn Crunch cereal and mid single digit growth in Life cereal. Higher effective net pricing contributed nearly 3 percentage points of growth reflecting favorable product mix, the settlement of prior year trade spending accruals and price increases on ready to eat cereals taken in the third quarter of 2004. Favorable Canadian exchange rates contributed nearly 1 percentage point to net revenue growth. The additional week in 2005 contributed approximately 2 percentage points to both net revenue and volume growth. Operating profit increased 13% reflecting the net revenue growth. This growth was partially offset by higher advertising and marketing costs behind programs for core brands and innovation, as well as an unfavorable cost of sales comparison primarily due to higher energy and raw materials costs in the latter part of 2005. The additional week in 2005 contributed approximately 2 percentage points to operating profit growth. Smart Spot eligible products represented approximately half of net revenue and had double digit revenue growth. The balance of the portfolio also experienced double digit revenue growth. 54 Table of Contents 2004 Net revenue increased 4% and volume increased 3%. The volume increase reflects high single digit growth in Oatmeal and double digit growth in Life cereal, partially offset by a mid single digit decline in Capn Crunch cereal. The Life cereal growth was led by the introduction of Honey Graham Life. Favorable product mix, reflecting growth in higher revenue per pound brands, was offset by promotional spending behind new products. Favorable Canadian exchange rates contributed 1 percentage point to net revenue growth. Operating profit increased 1% reflecting the net revenue growth, substantially offset by an unfavorable cost of sales comparison and higher advertising and marketing costs. Smart Spot eligible products represented approximately half of net revenue and had high single digit revenue growth. The balance of the portfolio was flat. Our Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position Our strong cash generating capability and financial condition give us ready access to capital markets throughout the world. Our principal source of liquidity is our operating cash flow. This cash generating capability is one of our fundamental strengths and provides us with substantial financial flexibility in meeting operating, investing and financing needs. In addition, we have revolving credit facilities that are further discussed in Note 9. Our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality. Working capital needs are impacted by weekly sales, which are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday related sales patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. Operating Activities In 2005, our operations provided $5.9 billion of cash compared to $5.1 billion in the prior year. The increase reflects our solid business results, as well as lower taxes paid in the current year as 2004 tax payments included a $760 million tax payment related to our 2003 settlement with the IRS. This increase was partially offset by $803 million of pension plan contributions in the current year, of which $729 million was discretionary, compared to pension payments of $458 million in the prior year, of which $400 million was discretionary. Investing Activities In 2005, we used $3.5 billion, primarily reflecting capital spending of $1.7 billion, acquisitions of $1.1 billion, primarily the $750 million acquisition of General Mills minority interest in Snack Ventures Europe, and net purchases of short term investments of $1.0 billion. These amounts were partially offset by the proceeds from our sale of PBG stock of $214 million. In 2004, we used $2.3 billion for investing, primarily reflecting capital spending of $1.4 billion and short term investments of almost $1.0 billion. 55 Table of Contents In the first quarter of 2006, we completed our acquisition of Stacys Pita Chip Company which was funded with existing domestic cash. This acquisition will be included in the first quarter of 2006 as an investing activity in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. We anticipate net capital spending of approximately $2.2 billion in 2006, which is above our long term target of approximately 5% of net revenue. Planned capital spending in 2006 includes increased investments in manufacturing capacity to support growth in our China snack and beverage operations and our North American Gatorade business, as well as increased investment in support of our ongoing BPT initiative. We expect capital spending to return to our long term targeted rate following 2006. Financing Activities In 2005, we used $1.9 billion, primarily reflecting common share repurchases of $3.0 billion and dividend payments of $1.6 billion, partially offset by net proceeds from short term borrowings of $1.8 billion and stock option proceeds of $1.1 billion. This compares to $2.3 billion used for financing in 2004, primarily reflecting share repurchases at a cost of $3.0 billion and dividend payments of $1.3 billion, partially offset by net issuances of short term borrowings of $1.1 billion and proceeds from exercises of stock options of nearly $1.0 billion. In 2004, our Board of Directors authorized a new $7.0 billion share repurchase program. Since inception of the new program, we have repurchased $5.1 billion of shares, leaving $1.9 billion of remaining authorization. We target an annual dividend payout of approximately 45% of prior years net income from continuing operations. Each spring we review our capital structure with our Board, including our dividend policy and share repurchase activity. Management Operating Cash Flow We focus on management operating cash flow as a key element in achieving maximum shareholder value, and it is the primary measure we use to monitor cash flow performance. However, it is not a measure provided by accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating activities. The table below reconciles the net cash provided by operating activities as reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to our management operating cash flow. 2005 2004 2003 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 5,852 $ 5,054 $ 4,328 Capital spending (1,736 ) (1,387 ) (1,345 ) Sales of property, plant and equipment 88 38 49 Management operating cash flow $ 4,204 $ 3,705 $ 3,032 56 Table of Contents Management operating cash flow was used primarily to repurchase shares and pay dividends. We expect to continue to return approximately all of our management operating cash flow to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. However, see Risk Factors in Item 1A. and Our Business Risks for certain factors that may impact our operating cash flows. Credit Ratings Our debt ratings of Aa3 from Moodys and A+ from Standard & Poors contribute to our ability to access global capital markets. We have maintained strong investment grade ratings for over a decade. Our Moodys rating reflects an upgrade from A1 to Aa3 in 2004 due to the strength of our balance sheet and cash flows. Each rating is considered strong investment grade and is in the first quartile of their respective ranking systems. These ratings also reflect the impact of our anchor bottlers cash flows and debt. Credit Facilities and Long Term Contractual Commitments See Note 9 for a description of our credit facilities and long term contractual commitments. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements It is not our business practice to enter into off balance sheet arrangements, other than in the normal course of business, nor is it our policy to issue guarantees to our bottlers, noncontrolled affiliates or third parties. However, certain guarantees were necessary to facilitate the separation of our bottling and restaurant operations from us. As of year end 2005, we believe it is remote that these guarantees would require any cash payment. See Note 9 for a description of our off balance sheet arrangements. Financial Position Significant changes in our Consolidated Balance Sheet from December 25, 2004 to December 31, 2005 not discussed above were as follows: Other assets increased primarily reflecting our increased pension contributions in the current year. Income taxes payable increased primarily reflecting $460 million of taxes accrued related to our repatriation of international earnings in connection with the AJCA to be paid in the first quarter of 2006. 57 Table of Contents OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS Consolidated Statement of Income PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries Fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, December 25, 2004 and December 27, 2003 (in millions except per share amounts)  2005 2004 2003 Net Revenue $ 32,562 $ 29,261 $ 26,971 Cost of sales 14,176 12,674 11,691 Selling, general and administrative expenses 12,314 11,031 10,148 Amortization of intangible assets 150 147 145 Restructuring and impairment charges 150 147 Merger related costs 59 Operating Profit 5,922 5,259 4,781 Bottling equity income 557 380 323 Interest expense (256 ) (167 ) (163 ) Interest income 159 74 51 Income from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes 6,382 5,546 4,992 Provision for Income Taxes 2,304 1,372 1,424 Income from Continuing Operations 4,078 4,174 3,568 Tax Benefit from Discontinued Operations 38 Net Income $ 4,078 $ 4,212 $ 3,568 Net Income per Common Share Basic Continuing operations $ 2.43 $ 2.45 $ 2.07 Discontinued operations 0.02 Total $ 2.43 $ 2.47 $ 2.07 Net Income per Common Share Diluted Continuing operations $ 2.39 $ 2.41 $ 2.05 Discontinued operations 0.02 Total $ 2.39 $ 2.44 * $ 2.05 * Based on unrounded amounts. See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 58 Table of Contents Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries Fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, December 25, 2004 and December 27, 2003 (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Operating Activities Net income $ 4,078 $ 4,212 $ 3,568 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities Depreciation and amortization 1,308 1,264 1,221 Stock based compensation expense 311 368 407 Restructuring and impairment charges 150 147 Cash payments for merger related costs and restructuring charges (22 ) (92 ) (109 ) Tax benefit from discontinued operations (38 ) Pension and retiree medical plan contributions (877 ) (534 ) (605 ) Pension and retiree medical plan expenses 464 395 277 Bottling equity income, net of dividends (411 ) (297 ) (276 ) Deferred income taxes and other tax charges and credits 440 (203 ) (286 ) Merger related costs 59 Other non cash charges and credits, net 145 166 101 Changes in operating working capital, excluding effects of acquisitions and divestitures Accounts and notes receivable (272 ) (130 ) (220 ) Inventories (132 ) (100 ) (49 ) Prepaid expenses and other current assets (56 ) (31 ) 23 Accounts payable and other current liabilities 188 216 (11 ) Income taxes payable 609 (268 ) 182 Net change in operating working capital 337 (313 ) (75 ) Other 79 (24 ) (101 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 5,852 5,054 4,328 Investing Activities Snack Ventures Europe (SVE) minority interest acquisition (750 ) Capital spending (1,736 ) (1,387 ) (1,345 ) Sales of property, plant and equipment 88 38 49 Other acquisitions and investments in noncontrolled affiliates (345 ) (64 ) (71 ) Cash proceeds from sale of PBG stock 214 Divestitures 3 52 46 Short term investments, by original maturity More than three months purchases (83 ) (44 ) (38 ) More than three months maturities 84 38 28 Three months or less, net (992 ) (963 ) (940 ) Net Cash Used for Investing Activities (3,517 ) (2,330 ) (2,271 ) (Continued on following page) 59 Table of Contents Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (continued) PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries Fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, December 25, 2004 and December 27, 2003 (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Financing Activities Proceeds from issuances of long term debt $ 25 $ 504 $ 52 Payments of long term debt (177 ) (512 ) (641 ) Short term borrowings, by original maturity More than three months proceeds 332 153 88 More than three months payments (85 ) (160 ) (115 ) Three months or less, net 1,601 1,119 40 Cash dividends paid (1,642 ) (1,329 ) (1,070 ) Share repurchases common (3,012 ) (3,028 ) (1,929 ) Share repurchases preferred (19 ) (27 ) (16 ) Proceeds from exercises of stock options 1,099 965 689 Net Cash Used for Financing Activities (1,878 ) (2,315 ) (2,902 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (21 ) 51 27 Net Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 436 460 (818 ) Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year 1,280 820 1,638 Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year $ 1,716 $ 1,280 $ 820 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 60 Table of Contents Consolidated Balance Sheet PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004 (in millions except per share amounts) 2005 2004 ASSETS Current Assets Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,716 $ 1,280 Short term investments 3,166 2,165 4,882 3,445 Accounts and notes receivable, net 3,261 2,999 Inventories 1,693 1,541 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 618 654 Total Current Assets 10,454 8,639 Property, Plant and Equipment, net 8,681 8,149 Amortizable Intangible Assets, net 530 598 Goodwill 4,088 3,909 Other nonamortizable intangible assets 1,086 933 Nonamortizable Intangible Assets 5,174 4,842 Investments in Noncontrolled Affiliates 3,485 3,284 Other Assets 3,403 2,475 Total Assets $ 31,727 $ 27,987 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Current Liabilities Short term obligations $ 2,889 $ 1,054 Accounts payable and other current liabilities 5,971 5,599 Income taxes payable 546 99 Total Current Liabilities 9,406 6,752 Long Term Debt Obligations 2,313 2,397 Other Liabilities 4,323 4,099 Deferred Income Taxes 1,434 1,216 Total Liabilities 17,476 14,464 Commitments and Contingencies Preferred Stock, no par value 41 41 Repurchased Preferred Stock (110 ) (90 ) Common Shareholders Equity Common stock, par value 1 2/3 per share (issued 1,782 shares) 30 30 Capital in excess of par value 614 618 Retained earnings 21,116 18,730 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (1,053 ) (886 ) 20,707 18,492 Less: repurchased common stock, at cost (126 and 103 shares, respectively) (6,387 ) (4,920 ) Total Common Shareholders Equity 14,320 13,572 Total Liabilities and Shareholders Equity $ 31,727 $ 27,987 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 61 Table of Contents Consolidated Statement of Common Shareholders Equity PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries Fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, December 25, 2004 and December 27, 2003 (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount Common Stock 1,782 $ 30 1,782 $ 30 1,782 $ 30 Capital in Excess of Par Value Balance, beginning of year 618 548 207 Stock based compensation expense 311 368 407 Stock option exercises (a) (315 ) (298 ) (66 ) Balance, end of year 614 618 548 Retained Earnings Balance, beginning of year 18,730 15,961 13,489 Net income 4,078 4,212 3,568 Cash dividends declared common (1,684 ) (1,438 ) (1,082 ) Cash dividends declared preferred (3 ) (3 ) (3 ) Cash dividends declared RSUs (5 ) (2 ) Other (11 ) Balance, end of year 21,116 18,730 15,961 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Balance, beginning of year (886 ) (1,267 ) (1,672 ) Currency translation adjustment (251 ) 401 410 Cash flow hedges, net of tax: Net derivative gains/(losses) 54 (16 ) (11 ) Reclassification of (gains)/losses to net income (8 ) 9 (1 ) Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax 16 (19 ) 7 Unrealized gain on securities, net of tax 24 6 1 Other (2 ) (1 ) Balance, end of year (1,053 ) (886 ) (1,267 ) Repurchased Common Stock Balance, beginning of year (103 ) (4,920 ) (77 ) (3,376 ) (60 ) (2,524 ) Share repurchases (54 ) (2,995 ) (58 ) (2,994 ) (43 ) (1,946 ) Stock option exercises 31 1,523 32 1,434 26 1,096 Other 5 16 (2 ) Balance, end of year (126 ) (6,387 ) (103 ) (4,920 ) (77 ) (3,376 ) Total Common Shareholders Equity $ 14,320 $ 13,572 $ 11,896 2005 2004 2003 Comprehensive Income Net Income $ 4,078 $ 4,212 $ 3,568 Currency translation adjustment (251 ) 401 410 Cash flow hedges, net of tax 46 (7 ) (12 ) Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax 16 (19 ) 7 Unrealized gain on securities, net of tax 24 6 1 Other (2 ) (1 ) Total Comprehensive Income $ 3,911 $ 4,593 $ 3,973 (a) Includes total tax benefit of $125 million in 2005, $183 million in 2004 and $340 million in 2003. See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 62 Table of Contents Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions Basis of Presentation Our financial statements include the consolidated accounts of PepsiCo, Inc. and the affiliates that we control. In addition, we include our share of the results of certain other affiliates based on our economic ownership interest. We do not control these other affiliates, as our ownership in these other affiliates is generally less than 50%. Our share of the net income of noncontrolled bottling affiliates is reported in our income statement as bottling equity income. Bottling equity income also includes any changes in our ownership interests of these affiliates. In 2005, bottling equity income includes $126 million of pre tax gains on our sales of PBG stock. See Note 8 for additional information on our noncontrolled bottling affiliates. Our share of other noncontrolled affiliates is included in division operating profit. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. In 2005, we had an additional week of results (53rd week). Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December, resulting in an additional week of results every five or six years. In connection with our ongoing BPT initiative, we aligned certain accounting policies across our divisions in 2005. We conformed our methodology for calculating our bad debt reserves and modified our policy for recognizing revenue for products shipped to customers by third party carriers. Additionally, we conformed our method of accounting for certain costs, primarily warehouse and freight. These changes reduced our net revenue by $36 million and our operating profit by $60 million in 2005. We also made certain reclassifications on our Consolidated Statement of Income in the fourth quarter of 2005 from cost of sales to selling, general and administrative expenses in connection with our BPT initiative. These reclassifications resulted in reductions to cost of sales of $556 million through the third quarter of 2005, $732 million in the full year 2004 and $688 million in the full year 2003, with corresponding increases to selling, general and administrative expenses in those periods. These reclassifications had no net impact on operating profit and have been made to all periods presented for comparability. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Estimates are used in determining, among other items, sales incentives accruals, future cash flows associated with impairment testing for perpetual brands and goodwill, useful lives for intangible assets, tax reserves, stock based compensation and pension and retiree medical accruals. Actual results could differ from these estimates. See Our Divisions below and for additional unaudited information on items affecting the comparability of our consolidated results, see Items Affecting Comparability in Managements Discussion and Analysis. 63 Table of Contents Tabular dollars are in millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts reflect common per share amounts, assume dilution unless noted, and are based on unrounded amounts. Certain reclassifications were made to prior years amounts to conform to the 2005 presentation. Our Divisions We manufacture or use contract manufacturers, market and sell a variety of salty, sweet and grain based snacks, carbonated and non carbonated beverages, and foods through our North American and international business divisions. Our North American divisions include the United States and Canada. The accounting policies for the divisions are the same as those described in Note 2, except for certain allocation methodologies for stock based compensation expense and pension and retiree medical expense, as described in the unaudited information in Our Critical Accounting Policies. Additionally, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005, we began centrally managing commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. Certain of the commodity derivatives, primarily those related to the purchase of energy for use by our divisions, do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. These derivatives hedge underlying commodity price risk and were not entered into for speculative purposes. Such derivatives are marked to market with the resulting gains and losses recognized as a component of corporate unallocated expense. These gains and losses are reflected in division results when the divisions take delivery of the underlying commodity. Therefore, division results reflect the contract purchase price of the energy or other commodities. Division results are based on how our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer evaluates our divisions. Division results exclude certain Corporate initiated restructuring and impairment charges, merger related costs and divested businesses. For additional unaudited information on our divisions, see Our Operations in Managements Discussion and Analysis. 64 Table of Contents 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 Net Revenue Operating Profit FLNA $ 10,322 $ 9,560 $ 9,091 $ 2,529 $ 2,389 $ 2,242 PBNA 9,146 8,313 7,733 2,037 1,911 1,690 PI 11,376 9,862 8,678 1,607 1,323 1,061 QFNA 1,718 1,526 1,467 537 475 470 Total division 32,562 29,261 26,969 6,710 6,098 5,463 Divested businesses 2 26 Corporate (788 ) (689 ) (502 ) 32,562 29,261 26,971 5,922 5,409 4,987 Restructuring and impairment charges (150 ) (147 ) Merger related costs (59 ) Total $ 32,562 $ 29,261 $ 26,971 $ 5,922 $ 5,259 $ 4,781 Divested Businesses During 2003, we sold our Quaker Foods North America Mission pasta business. The results of this business are reported as divested businesses. Corporate Corporate includes costs of our corporate headquarters, centrally managed initiatives, such as our BPT initiative, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and certain commodity derivative gains and losses, as well as profit in inventory elimination adjustments for our noncontrolled bottling affiliates and certain other items. 65 Table of Contents Restructuring and Impairment Charges and Merger Related Costs See Note 3. Other Division Information 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 Total Assets Capital Spending FLNA $ 5,948 $ 5,476 $ 5,332 $ 512 $ 469 $ 426 PBNA 6,316 6,048 5,856 320 265 332 PI 9,983 8,921 8,109 667 537 521 QFNA 989 978 995 31 33 32 Total division 23,236 21,423 20,292 1,530 1,304 1,311 Corporate (a) 5,331 3,569 2,384 206 83 34 Investments in bottling affiliates 3,160 2,995 2,651 $ 31,727 $ 27,987 $ 25,327 $ 1,736 $ 1,387 $ 1,345 (a) Corporate assets consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, short term investments, and property, plant and equipment. 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 Amortization of Intangible Assets Depreciation and Other Amortization FLNA $ 3 $ 3 $ 3 $ 419 $ 420 $ 416 PBNA 76 75 75 264 258 245 PI 71 68 66 420 382 350 QFNA 1 1 34 36 36 Total division 150 147 145 1,137 1,096 1,047 Corporate 21 21 29 $ 150 $ 147 $ 145 $ 1,158 $ 1,117 $ 1,076 66 Table of Contents 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 Net Revenue(a) Long Lived Assets(b) U.S. $ 19,937 $ 18,329 $ 17,377 $ 10,723 $ 10,212 $ 9,907 Mexico 3,095 2,724 2,642 902 878 869 United Kingdom 1,821 1,692 1,510 1,715 1,896 1,724 Canada 1,509 1,309 1,147 582 548 508 All other countries 6,200 5,207 4,295 3,948 3,339 3,123 $ 32,562 $ 29,261 $ 26,971 $ 17,870 $ 16,873 $ 16,131 (a) Represents net revenue from businesses operating in these countries. (b) Long lived assets represent net property, plant and equipment, nonamortizable and net amortizable intangible assets and investments in noncontrolled affiliates. These assets are reported in the country where they are primarily used. Note 2 Our Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue upon shipment or delivery to our customers based on written sales terms that do not allow for a right of return. However, our policy for direct store delivery (DSD) and chilled products is to remove and replace damaged and out of date products from store shelves to ensure that our consumers receive the product quality and freshness that they expect. Similarly, our policy for warehouse distributed products is to replace damaged and out of date products. Based on our historical experience with this practice, we have reserved for anticipated damaged and out of date products. For additional unaudited information on our revenue recognition and related policies, including our policy on bad debts, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. We are exposed to concentration of credit risk by our customers, Wal Mart and PBG. Wal Mart represents approximately 9% of our net revenue, including concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to Wal Mart; and PBG represents approximately 10%. We have not experienced credit issues with these customers. 67 Table of Contents Sales Incentives and Other Marketplace Spending We offer sales incentives and discounts through various programs to our customers and consumers. Sales incentives and discounts are accounted for as a reduction of revenue and totaled $8.9 billion in 2005, $7.8 billion in 2004 and $7.1 billion in 2003. While most of these incentive arrangements have terms of no more than one year, certain arrangements extend beyond one year. For example, fountain pouring rights may extend up to 15 years. Costs incurred to obtain these arrangements are recognized over the contract period and the remaining balances of $321 million at December 31, 2005 and $337 million at December 25, 2004 are included in current assets and other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. For additional unaudited information on our sales incentives, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Other marketplace spending includes the costs of advertising and other marketing activities and is reported as selling, general and administrative expenses. Advertising expenses were $1.8 billion in 2005, $1.7 billion in 2004 and $1.6 billion in 2003. Deferred advertising costs are not expensed until the year first used and consist of: media and personal service prepayments, promotional materials in inventory, and production costs of future media advertising. Deferred advertising costs of $202 million and $137 million at year end 2005 and 2004, respectively, are classified as prepaid expenses in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Distribution Costs Distribution costs, including the costs of shipping and handling activities, are reported as selling, general and administrative expenses. Shipping and handling expenses were $4.1 billion in 2005, $3.9 billion in 2004 and $3.6 billion in 2003. Cash Equivalents Cash equivalents are investments with original maturities of three months or less which we do not intend to rollover beyond three months. Software Costs We capitalize certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are included in property, plant and equipment on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and amortized on a straight line basis over the estimated useful lives of the software, which generally do not exceed 5 years. Net capitalized software and development costs were $327 million at December 31, 2005 and $181 million at December 25, 2004. 68 Table of Contents Commitments and Contingencies We are subject to various claims and contingencies related to lawsuits, taxes and environmental matters, as well as commitments under contractual and other commercial obligations. We recognize liabilities for contingencies and commitments when a loss is probable and estimable. For additional information on our commitments, see Note 9. Other Significant Accounting Policies Our other significant accounting policies are disclosed as follows: Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets Note 4 and, for additional unaudited information on brands and goodwill, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Income Taxes Note 5 and, for additional unaudited information, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Stock Based Compensation Expense Note 6 and, for additional unaudited information, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans Note 7 and, for additional unaudited information, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Risk Management Note 10 and, for additional unaudited information, see Our Business Risks in Managements Discussion and Analysis. There have been no new accounting pronouncements issued or effective during 2005 that have had, or are expected to have, a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Note 3 Restructuring and Impairment Charges and Merger Related Costs 2005 Restructuring Charges In the fourth quarter of 2005, we incurred a charge of $83 million ($55 million after tax or $0.03 per share) in conjunction with actions taken to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions. Of this charge, $34 million related to FLNA, $21 million to PBNA, $16 million to PI and $12 million to Corporate (recorded in corporate unallocated expenses). Most of this charge related to the termination of approximately 700 employees. We expect the substantial portion of the cash payments related to this charge to be paid in 2006. 2004 and 2003 Restructuring and Impairment Charges In the fourth quarter of 2004, we incurred a charge of $150 million ($96 million after tax or $0.06 per share) in conjunction with the consolidation of FLNAs manufacturing network as part of its ongoing productivity program. Of this charge, $93 million related to asset impairment, primarily reflecting the closure of four U.S. plants. Production from 69 Table of Contents these plants was redeployed to other FLNA facilities in the U.S. The remaining $57 million included employee related costs of $29 million, contract termination costs of $8 million and other exit costs of $20 million. Employee related costs primarily reflect the termination costs for approximately 700 employees. Through December 31, 2005, we have paid $47 million and incurred non cash charges of $10 million, leaving substantially no accrual. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we incurred a charge of $147 million ($100 million after tax or $0.06 per share) in conjunction with actions taken to streamline our North American divisions and PepsiCo International. These actions were taken to increase focus and eliminate redundancies at PBNA and PI and to improve the efficiency of the supply chain at FLNA. Of this charge, $81 million related to asset impairment, reflecting $57 million for the closure of a snack plant in Kentucky, the retirement of snack manufacturing lines in Maryland and Arkansas and $24 million for the closure of a PBNA office building in Florida. The remaining $66 million included employee related costs of $54 million and facility and other exit costs of $12 million. Employee related costs primarily reflect the termination costs for approximately 850 sales, distribution, manufacturing, research and marketing employees. As of December 31, 2005, all terminations had occurred and substantially no accrual remains. Merger Related Costs In connection with the Quaker merger in 2001, we recognized merger related costs of $59 million ($42 million after tax or $0.02 per share) in 2003. Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets AverageUseful Life 2005 2004 2003 Property, plant and equipment, net Land and improvements 10 30 yrs. $ 685 $ 646 Buildings and improvements 20 44 3,736 3,605 Machinery and equipment, including fleet and software 5 15 11,658 10,950 Construction in progress 1,066 729 17,145 15,930 Accumulated depreciation (8,464 ) (7,781 ) $ 8,681 $ 8,149 Depreciation expense $ 1,103 $ 1,062 $ 1,020 Amortizable intangible assets, net Brands 5 40 $ 1,054 $ 1,008 Other identifiable intangibles 3 15 257 225 1,311 1,233 Accumulated amortization (781 ) (635 ) $ 530 $ 598 Amortization expense $ 150 $ 147 $ 145 70 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization are recognized on a straight line basis over an assets estimated useful life. Land is not depreciated and construction in progress is not depreciated until ready for service. Amortization of intangible assets for each of the next five years, based on average 2005 foreign exchange rates, is expected to be $152 million in 2006, $35 million in 2007, $35 million in 2008, $34 million in 2009 and $33 million in 2010. Depreciable and amortizable assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating or macroeconomic environment. In these circumstances, if an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on discounted future cash flows. Useful lives are periodically evaluated to determine whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate the need for revision. For additional unaudited information on our amortizable brand policies, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Nonamortizable Intangible Assets Perpetual brands and goodwill are assessed for impairment at least annually to ensure that discounted future cash flows continue to exceed the related book value. A perpetual brand is impaired if its book value exceeds its fair value. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment if the book value of its reporting unit exceeds its fair value. A reporting unit can be a division or business within a division. If the fair value of an evaluated asset is less than its book value, the asset is written down based on its discounted future cash flows to fair value. No impairment charges resulted from the required impairment evaluations. The change in the book value of nonamortizable intangible assets is as follows: Balance,Beginning2004 Acquisition Translationand Other Balance,End of2004 Acquisition Translationand Other Balance,End of2005 Frito Lay North America Goodwill $ 130 $ $ 8 $ 138 $ $ 7 $ 145 PepsiCo Beverages North America Goodwill 2,157 4 2,161 3 2,164 Brands 59 59 59 2,216 4 2,220 3 2,223 PepsiCo International Goodwill 1,334 29 72 1,435 278 (109 ) 1,604 Brands 808 61 869 263 (106 ) 1,026 2,142 29 133 2,304 541 (215 ) 2,630 Quaker Foods North America Goodwill 175 175 175 Corporate Pension intangible 2 3 5 (4 ) 1 Total goodwill 3,796 29 84 3,909 278 (99 ) 4,088 Total brands 867 61 928 263 (106 ) 1,085 Total pension intangible 2 3 5 (4 )) 1 $ 4,665 $ 29 $ 148 $ 4,842 $ 541 $ (209 ) $ 5,174 71 Table of Contents Note 5 Income Taxes 2005 2004 2003 Income before income taxes continuing operations U.S. $ 3,175 $ 2,946 $ 3,267 Foreign 3,207 2,600 1,725 $ 6,382 $ 5,546 $ 4,992 Provision for income taxes continuing operations Current: U.S. Federal $ 1,638 $ 1,030 $ 1,326 Foreign 426 256 341 State 118 69 80 2,182 1,355 1,747 Deferred: U.S. Federal 137 11 (274 ) Foreign (26 ) 5 (47 ) State 11 1 (2 ) 122 17 (323 ) $ 2,304 $ 1,372 $ 1,424 Tax rate reconciliation continuing operations U.S. Federal statutory tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % State income tax, net of U.S. Federal tax benefit 1.4 0.8 1.0 Taxes on AJCA repatriation 7.0 Lower taxes on foreign results (6.5 ) (5.4 ) (5.5 ) Settlement of prior years audit (4.8 ) (2.2 ) Other, net (0.8 ) (0.9 ) 0.2 Annual tax rate 36.1 % 24.7 % 28.5 % Deferred tax liabilities Investments in noncontrolled affiliates $ 993 $ 850 Property, plant and equipment 772 857 Pension benefits 863 669 Intangible assets other than nondeductible goodwill 135 153 Zero coupon notes 35 46 Other 169 157 Gross deferred tax liabilities 2,967 2,732 Deferred tax assets Net carryforwards 608 666 Stock based compensation 426 402 Retiree medical benefits 400 402 Other employee related benefits 342 379 Other 520 460 Gross deferred tax assets 2,296 2,309 Valuation allowances (532 ) (564 ) Deferred tax assets, net 1,764 1,745 Net deferred tax liabilities $ 1,203 $ 987 72 Table of Contents 2005 2004 2003 Deferred taxes included within: Prepaid expenses and other current assets $ 231 $ 229 Deferred income taxes $ 1,434 $ 1,216 Analysis of valuation allowances Balance, beginning of year $ 564 $ 438 $ 487 (Benefit)/provision (28 ) 118 (52 ) Other (deductions)/additions (4 ) 8 3 Balance, end of year $ 532 $ 564 $ 438 For additional unaudited information on our income tax policies, including our reserves for income taxes, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Carryforwards, Credits and Allowances Operating loss carryforwards totaling $5.1 billion at year end 2005 are being carried forward in a number of foreign and state jurisdictions where we are permitted to use tax operating losses from prior periods to reduce future taxable income. These operating losses will expire as follows: $0.1 billion in 2006, $4.1 billion between 2007 and 2025 and $0.9 billion may be carried forward indefinitely. In addition, certain tax credits generated in prior periods of approximately $39.4 million are available to reduce certain foreign tax liabilities through 2011. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Undistributed International Earnings The AJCA created a one time incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed international earnings by providing an 85% dividends received deduction. As approved by our Board of Directors in July 2005, we repatriated approximately $7.5 billion in earnings previously considered indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2005. In 2005, we recorded income tax expense of $460 million associated with this repatriation. Other than the earnings repatriated, we intend to continue to reinvest earnings outside the U.S. for the foreseeable future and, therefore, have not recognized any U.S. tax expense on these earnings. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately $7.5 billion of undistributed international earnings. Reserves A number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for which we have established a reserve, is audited and finally resolved. The number of years with open tax audits varies depending on the tax jurisdiction. During 2004, we recognized $266 million of tax benefits related to the favorable resolution of certain open tax issues. In addition, in 2004, we recognized a tax benefit of $38 million upon agreement with the IRS on an open issue related to our discontinued restaurant operations. At the end of 2003, we entered into agreements with the IRS for open years through 73 Table of Contents 1997. These agreements resulted in a tax benefit of $109 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. As part of these agreements, we also resolved the treatment of certain other issues related to future tax years. The IRS has initiated their audits of our tax returns for the years 1998 through 2002. Our tax returns subsequent to 2002 have not yet been examined. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, we believe that our reserves reflect the probable outcome of known tax contingencies. Settlement of any particular issue would usually require the use of cash. Favorable resolution would be recognized as a reduction to our annual tax rate in the year of resolution. Our tax reserves, covering all federal, state and foreign jurisdictions, are presented in the balance sheet within other liabilities (see Note 14), except for any amounts relating to items we expect to pay in the coming year which are included in current income taxes payable. For further unaudited information on the impact of the resolution of open tax issues, see Other Consolidated Results. Note 6 Stock Based Compensation Our stock based compensation program is a broad based program designed to attract and retain employees while also aligning employees interests with the interests of our shareholders. Employees at all levels participate in our stock based compensation program. In addition, members of our Board of Directors participate in our stock based compensation program in connection with their service on our Board. Stock options and RSUs are granted to employees under the shareholder approved 2003 Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), our only active stock based plan. Stock based compensation expense was $311 million in 2005, $368 million in 2004 and $407 million in 2003. Related income tax benefits recognized in earnings were $87 million in 2005, $103 million in 2004 and $114 million in 2003. At year end 2005, 51 million shares were available for future executive and SharePower grants. For additional unaudited information on our stock based compensation program, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. SharePower Grants SharePower options are awarded under our LTIP to all eligible employees, based on job level or classification, and in the case of international employees, tenure as well. All stock option grants have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the day of grant and generally have a 10 year term with vesting after three years. Executive Grants All senior management and certain middle management are eligible for executive grants under our LTIP. All stock option grants have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the day of grant and generally have a 10 year term with vesting after three years. There have been no reductions to the exercise price of previously issued awards, and any repricing of awards would require approval of our shareholders. 74 Table of Contents Beginning in 2004, executives who are awarded long term incentives based on their performance are offered the choice of stock options or RSUs. RSU expense is based on the fair value of PepsiCo stock on the date of grant and is amortized over the vesting period, generally three years. Each restricted stock unit can be settled in a share of our stock after the vesting period. Executives who elect RSUs receive one RSU for every four stock options that would have otherwise been granted. Senior officers do not have a choice and are granted 50% stock options and 50% RSUs. Vesting of RSU awards for senior officers is contingent upon the achievement of pre established performance targets. We granted 3 million RSUs in both 2005 and 2004 with weighted average intrinsic values of $53.83 and $47.28, respectively. Method of Accounting and Our Assumptions We account for our employee stock options under the fair value method of accounting using a Black Scholes valuation model to measure stock based compensation expense at the date of grant. We adopted SFAS 123R, Share Based Payment, under the modified prospective method in the first quarter of 2006. We do not expect our adoption of SFAS 123R to materially impact our financial statements. Our weighted average Black Scholes fair value assumptions include: 2005 2004 2003 Expected life 6 yrs. 6 yrs. 6 yrs. Risk free interest rate 3.8% 3.3% 3.1% Expected volatility 23% 26% 27% Expected dividend yield 1.8% 1.8% 1.15% Our Stock Option Activity(a) 2005 2004 2003 Options AveragePrice(b) Options AveragePrice(b) Options AveragePrice(b) Outstanding at beginning of year 174,261 $ 40.05 198,173 $ 38.12 190,432 $ 36.45 Granted 12,328 53.82 14,137 47.47 41,630 39.89 Exercised (30,945 ) 35.40 (31,614 ) 30.57 (25,833 ) 26.74 Forfeited/expired (5,495 ) 43.31 (6,435 ) 43.82 (8,056 ) 43.56 Outstanding at end of year 150,149 42.03 174,261 40.05 198,173 38.12 Exercisable at end of year 89,652 40.52 94,643 36.41 97,663 32.56 (a) Options are in thousands and include options previously granted under Quaker plans. No additional options or shares may be granted under the Quaker plans. (b) Weighted average exercise price. 75 Table of Contents Stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2005(a) Options Outstanding Options Exercisable Range of Exercise Price Options AveragePrice(b) AverageLife(c) Options AveragePrice(b) AverageLife (c) $14.40 to $21.54 905 $ 20.01 3.56 yrs. 905 $ 20.01 3.56 yrs. $23.00 to $33.75 14,559 30.46 3.07 14,398 30.50 3.05 $34.00 to $43.50 82,410 39.44 5.34 48,921 39.19 4.10 $43.75 to $56.75 52,275 49.77 7.17 25,428 49.48 6.09 150,149 42.03 5.67 89,652 40.52 4.45 (a) Options are in thousands and include options previously granted under Quaker plans. No additional options or shares may be granted under the Quaker plans. (b) Weighted average exercise price. (c) Weighted average contractual life remaining. Our RSU Activity(a) 2005 2004 RSUs Average IntrinsicValue(b) AverageLife (c) RSUs Average IntrinsicValue(b) Average Life (c) Outstanding at beginning of year 2,922 $ 47.30 $ Granted 3,097 53.83 3,077 47.28 Converted (91 ) 48.73 (18 ) 47.25 Forfeited/expired (259 ) 50.51 (137 ) 47.25 Outstanding at end of year 5,669 50.70 1.8 yrs. 2,922 47.30 2.2 yrs. (a) RSUs are in thousands. (b) Weighted average intrinsic value. (c) Weighted average contractual life remaining. Other stock based compensation data Stock Options RSUs 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 Weighted average fair value of options granted $ 13.45 $ 12.04 $ 11.21 Total intrinsic value of options/RSUs exercised/converted(a) $ 632,603 $ 667,001 $ 466,719 $ 4,974 $ 914 Total intrinsic value of options/RSUs outstanding(a) $ 2,553,594 $ 2,062,153 $ 1,641,505 $ 334,931 $ 151,760 Total intrinsic value of options exercisable(a) $ 1,662,198 $ 1,464,926 $ 1,348,658 (a) In thousands. At December 31, 2005, there was $315 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share based compensation grants. This unrecognized compensation is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.6 years. 76 Table of Contents Note 7 Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans Our pension plans cover full time employees in the U.S. and certain international employees. Benefits are determined based on either years of service or a combination of years of service and earnings. U.S. retirees are also eligible for medical and life insurance benefits (retiree medical) if they meet age and service requirements. Generally, our share of retiree medical costs is capped at specified dollar amounts, which vary based upon years of service, with retirees contributing the remainder of the costs. We use a September 30 measurement date and all plan assets and liabilities are generally reported as of that date. The cost or benefit of plan changes that increase or decrease benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost) is included in expense on a straight line basis over the average remaining service period of employees expected to receive benefits. The Medicare Act was signed into law in December 2003 and we applied the provisions of the Medicare Act to our plans in 2005 and 2004. The Medicare Act provides a subsidy for sponsors of retiree medical plans who offer drug benefits equivalent to those provided under Medicare. As a result of the Medicare Act, our 2005 and 2004 retiree medical costs were $11 million and $7 million lower, respectively, and our 2005 and 2004 liabilities were reduced by $136 million and $80 million, respectively. We expect our 2006 retiree medical costs to be approximately $18 million lower than they otherwise would have been as a result of the Medicare Act. For additional unaudited information on our pension and retiree medical plans and related accounting policies and assumptions, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Pension Retiree Medical 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 2005 2004 2003 U.S. International Weighted average assumptions Liability discount rate 5.7 % 6.1 % 6.1 % 5.1 % 6.1 % 6.1 % 5.7 % 6.1 % 6.1 % Expense discount rate 6.1 % 6.1 % 6.7 % 6.1 % 6.1 % 6.4 % 6.1 % 6.1 % 6.7 % Expected return on plan assets 7.8 % 7.8 % 8.3 % 8.0 % 8.0 % 8.0 % Rate of compensation increases 4.4 % 4.5 % 4.5 % 4.1 % 3.9 % 3.8 % Components of benefit expense Service cost $ 213 $ 193 $ 153 $ 32 $ 27 $ 24 $ 40 $ 38 $ 33 Interest cost 296 271 245 55 47 39 78 72 73 Expected return on plan assets (344 ) (325 ) (305 ) (69 ) (65 ) (54 ) Amortization of prior service cost/(benefit) 3 6 6 1 1 (11 ) (8 ) (3 ) Amortization of experience loss 106 81 44 15 9 5 26 19 13 Benefit expense 274 226 143 34 19 14 133 121 116 Settlement/curtailment loss 4 1 Special termination benefits 21 19 4 1 2 4 Total $ 295 $ 249 $ 147 $ 34 $ 21 $ 14 $ 135 $ 125 $ 116 77 Table of Contents Pension Retiree Medical 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 U.S. International Change in projected benefit liability Liability at beginning of year $ 4,968 $ 4,456 $ 952 $ 758 $ 1,319 $ 1,264 Service cost 213 193 32 27 40 38 Interest cost 296 271 55 47 78 72 Plan amendments (17 ) 3 1 (8 ) (41 ) Participant contributions 10 9 Experience loss/(gain) 517 261 203 73 (45 ) 58 Benefit payments (241 ) (205 ) (28 ) (29 ) (74 ) (76 ) Settlement/curtailment loss (9 ) (2 ) Special termination benefits 21 18 1 2 4 Foreign currency adjustment (68 ) 67 Other (3 ) 104 Liability at end of year $ 5,771 $ 4,968 $ 1,263 $ 952 $ 1,312 $ 1,319 Liability at end of year for service to date $ 4,783 $ 4,164 $ 1,047 $ 779 Change in fair value of plan assets Fair value at beginning of year $ 4,152 $ 3,558 $ 838 $ 687 $ $ Actual return on plan assets 477 392 142 77 Employer contributions/funding 699 416 104 37 74 76 Participant contributions 10 9 Benefit payments (241 ) (205 ) (28 ) (29 ) (74 ) (76 ) Settlement/curtailment loss (9 ) (2 ) Foreign currency adjustment (61 ) 59 Other (1 ) 94 Fair value at end of year $ 5,086 $ 4,152 $ 1,099 $ 838 $ $ Funded status as recognized in our Consolidated Balance Sheet Funded status at end of year $ (685 ) $ (817 ) $ (164 ) $ (113 ) $ (1,312 ) $ (1,319 ) Unrecognized prior service cost/(benefit) 5 9 17 13 (113 ) (116 ) Unrecognized experience loss 2,288 2,013 474 380 402 473 Fourth quarter benefit payments 5 5 4 7 19 19 Net amounts recognized $ 1,613 $ 1,210 $ 331 $ 287 $ (1,004 ) $ (943 ) Net amounts as recognized in our Consolidated Balance Sheet Other assets $ 2,068 $ 1,572 $ 367 $ 294 $ $ Intangible assets 1 5 Other liabilities (479 ) (387 ) (41 ) (37 ) (1,004 ) (943 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss 24 25 4 25 Net amounts recognized $ 1,613 $ 1,210 $ 331 $ 287 $ (1,004 ) $ (943 ) Components of increase in unrecognized experience loss Decrease in discount rate $ 365 $ $ 194 $ 4 $ 61 $ Employee related assumption changes 57 196 2 65 109 Liability related experience different from assumptions 95 65 7 4 (54 ) 31 Actual asset return different from expected return (133 ) (67 ) (73 ) (12 ) Amortization of losses (106 ) (81 ) (15 ) (9 ) (26 ) (19 ) Other, including foreign currency adjustments and 2003 Medicare Act (3 ) (5 ) (22 ) 26 (52 ) (82 ) Total $ 275 $ 108 $ 93 $ 78 $ (71 ) $ 39 78 Table of Contents Pension Retiree Medical 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 U.S. International Selected information for plans with liability for service to date in excess of plan assets Liability for service to date $ (374 ) $ (320 ) $ (65 ) $ (191 ) $ (1,312 ) $ (1,319 ) Projected benefit liability $ (815 ) $ (685 ) $ (84 ) $ (227 ) $ (1,312 ) $ (1,319 ) Fair value of plan assets $ 8 $ 11 $ 33 $ 161 Of the total projected pension benefit liability at year end 2005, $765 million relates to plans that we do not fund because the funding of such plans does not receive favorable tax treatment. Future Benefit Payments Our estimated future benefit payments are as follows: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 15 Pension $ 235 $ 255 $ 275 $ 300 $ 330 $ 2,215 Retiree medical $ 85 $ 90 $ 90 $ 95 $ 100 $ 545 These future benefits to beneficiaries include payments from both funded and unfunded pension plans. Pension Assets The expected return on pension plan assets is based on our historical experience, our pension plan investment guidelines, and our expectations for long term rates of return. We use a market related value method that recognizes each years asset gain or loss over a five year period. Therefore, it takes five years for the gain or loss from any one year to be fully included in the value of pension plan assets that is used to calculate the expected return. Our pension plan investment guidelines are established based upon an evaluation of market conditions, tolerance for risk and cash requirements for benefit payments. Our investment objective is to ensure that funds are available to meet the plans benefit obligations when they are due. Our investment strategy is to prudently invest plan assets in high quality and diversified equity and debt securities to achieve our long term return expectation. Our target allocation and actual pension plan asset allocations for the plan years 2005 and 2004, are as follows: TargetAllocation ActualAllocation Asset Category 2005 2004 Equity securities 60% 60% 60% Debt securities 40% 39% 39% Other, primarily cash 1% 1% Total 100% 100% 100% 79 Table of Contents Pension assets include approximately 5.5 million shares of PepsiCo common stock with a market value of $311 million in 2005, and 5.5 million shares with a market value of $267 million in 2004. Our investment policy limits the investment in PepsiCo stock at the time of investment to 10% of the fair value of plan assets. Retiree Medical Cost Trend Rates An average increase of 10% in the cost of covered retiree medical benefits is assumed for 2006. This average increase is then projected to decline gradually to 5% in 2010 and thereafter. These assumed health care cost trend rates have an impact on the retiree medical plan expense and liability. However, the cap on our share of retiree medical costs limits the impact. A 1 percentage point change in the assumed health care trend rate would have the following effects: 1%Increase 1% Decrease 2005 service and interest cost components $ 3 $ (2 ) 2005 benefit liability $ 38 $ (33 ) Savings Plans Our U.S. employees are eligible to participate in 401(k) savings plans, which are voluntary defined contribution plans. The plans are designed to help employees accumulate additional savings for retirement. We make matching contributions on a portion of eligible pay based on years of service. In 2005 and 2004, our matching contributions were $52 million and $35 million, respectively. Note 8 Noncontrolled Bottling Affiliates Our most significant noncontrolled bottling affiliates are PBG and PAS. Approximately 10% of our net revenue in 2005, 2004 and 2003 reflects sales to PBG. The Pepsi Bottling Group In addition to approximately 41% and 42% of PBGs outstanding common stock that we own at year end 2005 and 2004, respectively, we own 100% of PBGs class B common stock and approximately 7% of the equity of Bottling Group, LLC, PBGs principal operating subsidiary. This gives us economic ownership of approximately 45% and 46% of PBGs combined operations at year end 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2005, bottling equity income includes $126 million of pre tax gains on our sales of PBG stock. 80 Table of Contents PBGs summarized financial information is as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Current assets $ 2,412 $ 2,183 Noncurrent assets 9,112 8,754 Total assets $ 11,524 $ 10,937 Current liabilities $ 2,598 $ 1,725 Noncurrent liabilities 6,387 6,818 Minority interest 496 445 Total liabilities $ 9,481 $ 8,988 Our investment $ 1,738 $ 1,594 Net revenue $ 11,885 $ 10,906 $ 10,265 Gross profit $ 5,632 $ 5,250 $ 5,050 Operating profit $ 1,023 $ 976 $ 956 Net income $ 466 $ 457 $ 416 Our investment in PBG, which includes the related goodwill, was $400 million and $321 million higher than our ownership interest in their net assets at year end 2005 and 2004, respectively. Based upon the quoted closing price of PBG shares at year end 2005 and 2004, the calculated market value of our shares in PBG, excluding our investment in Bottling Group, LLC, exceeded our investment balance by approximately $1.5 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively. PepsiAmericas At year end 2005 and 2004, we owned approximately 43% and 41% of PepsiAmericas, respectively, and their summarized financial information is as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Current assets $ 598 $ 530 Noncurrent assets 3,456 3,000 Total assets $ 4,054 $ 3,530 Current liabilities $ 722 $ 521 Noncurrent liabilities 1,763 1,386 Total liabilities $ 2,485 $ 1,907 Our investment $ 968 $ 924 Net revenue $ 3,726 $ 3,345 $ 3,237 Gross profit $ 1,562 $ 1,423 $ 1,360 Operating profit $ 393 $ 340 $ 316 Net income $ 195 $ 182 $ 158 81 Table of Contents Our investment in PAS, which includes the related goodwill, was $292 million and $253 million higher than our ownership interest in their net assets at year end 2005 and 2004, respectively. Based upon the quoted closing price of PAS shares at year end 2005 and 2004, the calculated market value of our shares in PepsiAmericas exceeded our investment balance by approximately $364 million and $277 million, respectively. In January 2005, PAS acquired a regional bottler, Central Investment Corporation. The table above includes the results of Central Investment Corporation from the transaction date forward. Related Party Transactions Our significant related party transactions involve our noncontrolled bottling affiliates. We sell concentrate to these affiliates, which is used in the production of carbonated soft drinks and non carbonated beverages. We also sell certain finished goods to these affiliates and we receive royalties for the use of our trademarks for certain products. Sales of concentrate and finished goods are reported net of bottler funding. For further unaudited information on these bottlers, see Our Customers in Managements Discussion and Analysis. These transactions with our bottling affiliates are reflected in our consolidated financial statements as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Net revenue $ 4,633 $ 4,170 $ 3,699 Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 143 $ 114 $ 128 Accounts and notes receivable $ 178 $ 157 Accounts payable and other current liabilities $ 117 $ 95 Such amounts are settled on terms consistent with other trade receivables and payables. See Note 9 regarding our guarantee of certain PBG debt. In addition, we coordinate, on an aggregate basis, the negotiation and purchase of sweeteners and other raw materials requirements for certain of our bottlers with suppliers. Once we have negotiated the contracts, the bottlers order and take delivery directly from the supplier and pay the suppliers directly. Consequently, these transactions are not reflected in our consolidated financial statements. As the contracting party, we could be liable to these suppliers in the event of any nonpayment by our bottlers, but we consider this exposure to be remote. 82 Table of Contents Note 9 Debt Obligations and Commitments 2005 2004 Short term debt obligations Current maturities of long term debt $ 143 $ 160 Commercial paper (3.3% and 1.6%) 3,140 1,287 Other borrowings (7.4% and 6.6%) 356 357 Amounts reclassified to long term debt (750 ) (750 ) $ 2,889 $ 1,054 Long term debt obligations Short term borrowings, reclassified $ 750 $ 750 Notes due 2006 2026 (5.4% and 4.7%) 1,161 1,274 Zero coupon notes, $475 million due 2006 2012 (13.4%) 312 321 Other, due 2006 2014 (6.3% and 6.2%) 233 212 2,456 2,557 Less: current maturities of long term debt obligations (143 ) (160 ) $ 2,313 $ 2,397 The interest rates in the above table reflect weighted average rates as of year end. Short term borrowings are reclassified to long term when we have the intent and ability, through the existence of the unused lines of credit, to refinance these borrowings on a long term basis. At year end 2005, we maintained $2.1 billion in corporate lines of credit subject to normal banking terms and conditions. These credit facilities support short term debt issuances and remained unused as of December 31, 2005. Of the $2.1 billion, $1.35 billion expires in May 2006 with the remaining $750 million expiring in June 2009. In addition, $181 million of our debt was outstanding on various lines of credit maintained for our international divisions. These lines of credit are subject to normal banking terms and conditions and are committed to the extent of our borrowings. Interest Rate Swaps We entered into interest rate swaps in 2004 to effectively convert the interest rate of a specific debt issuance from a fixed rate of 3.2% to a variable rate. The variable weighted average interest rate that we pay is linked to LIBOR and is subject to change. The notional amount of the interest rate swaps outstanding at December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004 was $500 million. The terms of the interest rate swaps match the terms of the debt they modify. The swaps mature in 2007. At December 31, 2005, approximately 78% of total debt, after the impact of the associated interest rate swaps, was exposed to variable interest rates, compared to 67% at December 25, 2004. In addition to variable rate long term debt, all debt with maturities of less than one year is categorized as variable for purposes of this measure. Cross Currency Interest Rate Swaps In 2004, we entered into a cross currency interest rate swap to hedge the currency exposure on U.S. dollar denominated debt of $50 million held by a foreign affiliate. The 83 Table of Contents terms of this swap match the terms of the debt it modifies. The swap matures in 2008. The unrecognized gain related to this swap was less than $1 million at December 31, 2005, resulting in a U.S. dollar liability of $50 million. At December 25, 2004, the unrecognized loss related to this swap was $3 million, resulting in a U.S. dollar liability of $53 million. We have also entered into cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the currency exposure on U.S. dollar denominated intercompany debt of $125 million. The terms of the swaps match the terms of the debt they modify. The swaps mature over the next two years. The net unrecognized gain related to these swaps was $5 million at December 31, 2005. The net unrecognized loss related to these swaps was less than $1 million at December 25, 2004. Long Term Contractual Commitments Payments Due by Period Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 andbeyond Long term debt obligations(a) $ 2,313 $ $ 1,052 $ 876 $ 385 Operating leases 769 187 253 132 197 Purchasing commitments(b) 4,533 1,169 1,630 775 959 Marketing commitments 1,487 412 438 381 256 Other commitments 99 82 10 6 1 $ 9,201 $ 1,850 $ 3,383 $ 2,170 $ 1,798 (a) Excludes current maturities of long term debt of $143 million which are classified within current liabilities. (b) Includes approximately $13 million of long term commitments which are reflected in other liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The above table reflects non cancelable commitments as of December 31, 2005 based on year end foreign exchange rates. Most long term contractual commitments, except for our long term debt obligations, are not recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Non cancelable operating leases primarily represent building leases. Non cancelable purchasing commitments are primarily for oranges and orange juices to be used for our Tropicana brand beverages. Non cancelable marketing commitments primarily are for sports marketing and with our fountain customers. Bottler funding is not reflected in our long term contractual commitments as it is negotiated on an annual basis. See Note 7 regarding our pension and retiree medical obligations and discussion below regarding our commitments to noncontrolled bottling affiliates and former restaurant operations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements It is not our business practice to enter into off balance sheet arrangements, other than in the normal course of business, nor is it our policy to issue guarantees to our bottlers, noncontrolled affiliates or third parties. However, certain guarantees were necessary to facilitate the separation of our bottling and restaurant operations from us. In connection with these transactions, we have guaranteed $2.3 billion of Bottling Group, LLCs long term debt through 2012 and $28 million of YUM! Brands, Inc. (YUM) outstanding 84 Table of Contents obligations, primarily property leases, through 2020. The terms of our Bottling Group, LLC debt guarantee are intended to preserve the structure of PBGs separation from us and our payment obligation would be triggered if Bottling Group, LLC failed to perform under these debt obligations or the structure significantly changed. Our guarantees of certain obligations ensured YUMs continued use of certain properties. These guarantees would require our cash payment if YUM failed to perform under these lease obligations. See Our Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position in Managements Discussion and Analysis for further unaudited information on our borrowings. Note 10 Risk Management We are exposed to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy, foreign exchange risks, interest rates, stock prices, and discount rates affecting the measurement of our pension and retiree medical liabilities. In the normal course of business, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, including the use of derivatives. Certain derivatives are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges and qualify for hedge accounting treatment, while others do not qualify and are marked to market through earnings. See Our Business Risks in Managements Discussion and Analysis for further unaudited information on our business risks. For cash flow hedges, changes in fair value are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive loss within shareholders equity until the underlying hedged item is recognized in net income. For fair value hedges, changes in fair value are recognized immediately in earnings, consistent with the underlying hedged item. Hedging transactions are limited to an underlying exposure. As a result, any change in the value of our derivative instruments would be substantially offset by an opposite change in the value of the underlying hedged items. Hedging ineffectiveness and a net earnings impact occur when the change in the value of the hedge does not offset the change in the value of the underlying hedged item. If the derivative instrument is terminated, we continue to defer the related gain or loss and include it as a component of the cost of the underlying hedged item. Upon determination that the underlying hedged item will not be part of an actual transaction, we recognize the related gain or loss in net income in that period. We also use derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We account for such derivatives at market value with the resulting gains and losses reflected in our income statement. We do not use derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes and we limit our exposure to individual counterparties to manage credit risk. 85 Table of Contents Commodity Prices We are subject to commodity price risk because our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing may be limited in the competitive environment in which we operate. This risk is managed through the use of fixed price purchase orders, pricing agreements, geographic diversity and derivatives. We use derivatives, with terms of no more than two years, to economically hedge price fluctuations related to a portion of our anticipated commodity purchases, primarily for natural gas and diesel fuel. For those derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, any ineffectiveness is recorded immediately. However, our commodity cash flow hedges have not had any significant ineffectiveness for all periods presented. We classify both the earnings and cash flow impact from these derivatives consistent with the underlying hedged item. During the next 12 months, we expect to reclassify gains of $24 million related to cash flow hedges from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net income. Foreign Exchange Our operations outside of the U.S. generate over a third of our net revenue of which Mexico, the United Kingdom and Canada comprise nearly 20%. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency risks from unforeseen economic changes and political unrest. On occasion, we enter into hedges, primarily forward contracts with terms of no more than two years, to reduce the effect of foreign exchange rates. Ineffectiveness on these hedges has not been material. Interest Rates We centrally manage our debt and investment portfolios considering investment opportunities and risks, tax consequences and overall financing strategies. We may use interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps to manage our overall interest expense and foreign exchange risk. These instruments effectively change the interest rate and currency of specific debt issuances. These swaps are entered into concurrently with the issuance of the debt that they are intended to modify. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt. These swaps are entered into only with strong creditworthy counterparties, are settled on a net basis and are of relatively short duration. Stock Prices The portion of our deferred compensation liability that is based on certain market indices and on our stock price is subject to market risk. We hold mutual fund investments and prepaid forward contracts to manage this risk. Changes in the fair value of these investments and contracts are recognized immediately in earnings and are offset by changes in the related compensation liability. 86 Table of Contents Fair Value All derivative instruments are recognized in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value. The fair value of our derivative instruments is generally based on quoted market prices. Book and fair values of our derivative and financial instruments are as follows: 2005 2004 BookValue FairValue BookValue FairValue Assets Cash and cash equivalents(a) $ 1,716 $ 1,716 $ 1,280 $ 1,280 Short term investments (b) $ 3,166 $ 3,166 $ 2,165 $ 2,165 Forward exchange contracts (c) $ 19 $ 19 $ 8 $ 8 Commodity contracts (d) $ 41 $ 41 $ 7 $ 7 Prepaid forward contracts (e) $ 107 $ 107 $ 120 $ 120 Cross currency interest rate swaps (f) $ 6 $ 6 Liabilities Forward exchange contracts (c) $ 15 $ 15 $ 35 $ 35 Commodity contracts (d) $ 3 $ 3 $ 8 $ 8 Debt obligations $ 5,202 $ 5,378 $ 3,451 $ 3,676 Interest rate swaps (g) $ 9 $ 9 $ 1 $ 1 Cross currency interest rate swaps (f) $ $ $ 3 $ 3 Included in our Consolidated Balance Sheet under the captions noted above or as indicated below. In addition, derivatives are designated as accounting hedges unless otherwise noted below. (a) Book value approximates fair value due to the short maturity. (b) Principally short term time deposits and includes $124 million at December 31, 2005 and $118 million at December 25, 2004 of mutual fund investments used to manage a portion of market risk arising from our deferred compensation liability. (c) 2005 asset includes $14 million related to derivatives not designated as accounting hedges. Assets are reported within current assets and other assets and liabilities are reported within current liabilities and other liabilities. (d) 2005 asset includes $2 million related to derivatives not designated as accounting hedges and the liability relates entirely to derivatives not designated as accounting hedges. Assets are reported within current assets and other assets and liabilities are reported within current liabilities and other liabilities. (e) Included in current assets and other assets. (f) Asset included within other assets and liability included in long term debt. (g) Reported in other liabilities. This table excludes guarantees, including our guarantee of $2.3 billion of Bottling Group, LLCs long term debt. The guarantee had a fair value of $47 million at December 31, 2005 and $46 million at December 25, 2004 based on an external estimate of the cost to us of transferring the liability to an independent financial institution. See Note 9 for additional information on our guarantees. Note 11 Net Income per Common Share from Continuing Operations Basic net income per common share is net income available to common shareholders divided by the weighted average of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per common share is calculated using the weighted average of 87 Table of Contents common shares outstanding adjusted to include the effect that would occur if in the money employee stock options were exercised and RSUs and preferred shares were converted into common shares. Options to purchase 3.0 million shares in 2005, 7.0 million shares in 2004 and 49.0 million shares in 2003 were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share because these options were out of the money. Out of the money options had average exercise prices of $53.77 in 2005, $52.88 in 2004 and $48.27 in 2003. The computations of basic and diluted net income per common share from continuing operations are as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Income Shares(a) Income Shares(a) Income Shares(a) Net income $ 4,078 $ 4,174 $ 3,568 Preferred shares: Dividends (2 ) (3 ) (3 ) Redemption premium (16 ) (22 ) (12 ) Net income available for common shareholders $ 4,060 1,669 $ 4,149 1,696 $ 3,553 1,718 Basic net income per common share $ 2.43 $ 2.45 $ 2.07 Net income available for common shareholders $ 4,060 1,669 $ 4,149 1,696 $ 3,553 1,718 Dilutive securities: Stock options and RSUs 35 31 17 ESOP convertible preferred stock 18 2 24 2 15 3 Unvested stock awards 1 Diluted $ 4,078 1,706 $ 4,173 1,729 $ 3,568 1,739 Diluted net income per common share $ 2.39 $ 2.41 $ 2.05 (a) Weighted average common shares outstanding. Note 12 Preferred and Common Stock As of December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004, there were 3.6 billion shares of common stock and 3 million shares of convertible preferred stock authorized. The preferred stock was issued only for an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) established by Quaker and these shares are redeemable for common stock by the ESOP participants. The preferred stock accrues dividends at an annual rate of $5.46 per share. At year end 2005 and 2004, there were 803,953 preferred shares issued and 354,853 and 424,853 shares outstanding, respectively. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into 4.9625 shares of common stock. The preferred shares may be called by us upon written notice at $78 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends. 88 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2005, 0.3 million outstanding shares of preferred stock with a fair value of $104 million and 17 million shares of common stock were held in the accounts of ESOP participants. As of December 25, 2004, 0.4 million outstanding shares of preferred stock with a fair value of $110 million and 18 million shares of common stock were held in the accounts of ESOP participants. Quaker made the final award to its ESOP plan in June 2001. 2005 2004 2003 Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount Preferred stock 0.8 $ 41 0.8 $ 41 0.8 $ 41 Repurchased preferred stock Balance, beginning of year 0.4 $ 90 0.3 $ 63 0.2 $ 48 Redemptions 0.1 19 0.1 27 0.1 15 Balance, end of year 0.5 $ 110 * 0.4 $ 90 0.3 $ 63 * Does not sum due to rounding. Note 13 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Comprehensive income is a measure of income which includes both net income and other comprehensive income or loss. Other comprehensive loss results from items deferred on the balance sheet in shareholders equity. Other comprehensive (loss)/income was $(167) million in 2005, $381 million in 2004, and $405 million in 2003. The accumulated balances for each component of other comprehensive loss were as follows: 2005 2004 2003 Currency translation adjustment $ (971 ) $ (720 ) $ (1,121 ) Cash flow hedges, net of tax (a) 27 (19 ) (12 ) Minimum pension liability adjustment (b) (138 ) (154 ) (135 ) Unrealized gain on securities, net of tax 31 7 1 Other (2 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (1,053 ) $ (886 ) $ (1,267 ) (a) Includes net commodity gains of $55 million in 2005. Also includes no impact in 2005, $6 million gain in 2004 and $8 million gain in 2003 for our share of our equity investees accumulated derivative activity. Deferred gains/(losses) reclassified into earnings were $8 million in 2005, $(10) million in 2004 and no impact in 2003. (b) Net of taxes of $72 million in 2005, $77 million in 2004 and $67 million in 2003. Also, includes $120 million in 2005, $121 million in 2004 and $110 million in 2003 for our share of our equity investees minimum pension liability adjustments. 89 Table of Contents Note 14 Supplemental Financial Information 2005 2004 2003 Accounts receivable Trade receivables $ 2,718 $ 2,505 Other receivables 618 591 3,336 3,096 Allowance, beginning of year 97 105 $ 116 Net amounts (credited)/charged to expense (1 ) 18 32 Deductions (a) (22 ) (25 ) (43 ) Other (b) 1 (1 ) Allowance, end of year 75 97 $ 105 Net receivables $ 3,261 $ 2,999 Inventory (c) Raw materials $ 738 $ 665 Work in process 112 156 Finished goods 843 720 $ 1,693 $ 1,541 Accounts payable and other current liabilities Accounts payable $ 1,799 $ 1,731 Accrued marketplace spending 1,383 1,285 Accrued compensation and benefits 1,062 961 Dividends payable 431 387 Insurance accruals 136 131 Other current liabilities 1,160 1,104 $ 5,971 $ 5,599 Other liabilities Reserves for income taxes $ 1,884 $ 1,567 Other 2,439 2,532 $ 4,323 $ 4,099 Other supplemental information Rent expense $ 228 $ 245 $ 231 Interest paid $ 213 $ 137 $ 147 Income taxes paid, net of refunds $ 1,258 $ 1,833 $ 1,530 Acquisitions(d) Fair value of assets acquired $ 1,089 $ 78 $ 178 Cash paid and debt issued (1,096 ) (64 ) (71 ) SVE minority interest eliminated 216 Liabilities assumed $ 209 $ 14 $ 107 (a) Includes accounts written off. (b) Includes collections of previously written off accounts and currency translation effects. (c) Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the average, first in, first out (FIFO) or last in, first out (LIFO) methods. Approximately 17% in 2005 and 15% in 2004 of the inventory cost was computed using the LIFO method. The differences between LIFO and FIFO methods of valuing these inventories were not material. (d) In 2005, these amounts include the impact of our acquisition of General Mills, Inc.s 40.5% ownership interest in SVE for $750 million. The excess of our purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired is $250 million and is included in Goodwill. We also reacquired rights to distribute global brands for $263 million which is included in Other nonamortizable intangible assets. 90 Table of Contents Managements Responsibility for Financial Reporting To Our Shareholders: At PepsiCo, our actions the actions of all our associates are governed by our Worldwide Code of Conduct. This code is clearly aligned with our stated values a commitment to sustained growth, through empowered people, operating with responsibility and building trust. Both the code and our core values enable us to operate with integrity both within the letter and the spirit of the law. Our code of conduct is reinforced consistently at all levels and in all countries. We have maintained strong governance policies and practices for many years. The management of PepsiCo is responsible for the objectivity and integrity of our consolidated financial statements. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has engaged independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, to audit our consolidated financial statements and they have expressed an unqualified opinion. We are committed to providing timely, accurate and understandable information to investors. Our commitment encompasses the following: Maintaining strong controls over financial reporting. Our system of internal control is based on the control criteria framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission published in their report titled, Internal Control Integrated Framework. The system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are executed as authorized and accurately recorded; that assets are safeguarded; and that accounting records are sufficiently reliable to permit the preparation of financial statements that conform in all material respects with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the specified time periods. We monitor these internal controls through self assessments and an ongoing program of internal audits. Our internal controls are reinforced through our Worldwide Code of Conduct, which sets forth our commitment to conduct business with integrity, and within both the letter and the spirit of the law. Exerting rigorous oversight of the business. We continuously review our business results and strategies. This encompasses financial discipline in our strategic and daily business decisions. Our Executive Committee is actively involved from understanding strategies and alternatives to reviewing key initiatives and financial performance. The intent is to ensure we remain objective in our assessments, constructively challenge our approach to potential business opportunities and issues, and monitor results and controls. Engaging strong and effective Corporate Governance from our Board of Directors. We have an active, capable and diligent Board that meets the required standards for independence, and we welcome the Boards oversight as a representative of our shareholders. Our Audit Committee comprises independent directors with the financial literacy, knowledge and experience to provide appropriate oversight. We review our critical accounting policies, financial reporting and internal control matters with them and encourage their direct communication with KPMG LLP, with our General Auditor, and 91 Table of Contents with our General Counsel. In 2005, we named a senior compliance officer to lead and coordinate our compliance policies and practices. Providing investors with financial results that are complete, transparent and understandable. The consolidated financial statements and financial information included in this report are the responsibility of management. This includes preparing the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require estimates based on managements best judgment. PepsiCo has a strong history of doing whats right. We realize that great companies are built on trust, strong ethical standards and principles. Our financial results are delivered from that culture of accountability, and we take responsibility for the quality and accuracy of our financial reporting. /S/ PETER A. BRIDGMAN Peter A. Bridgman Senior Vice President and Controller /S/ INDRA K. NOOYI Indra K. Nooyi President and Chief Financial Officer /S/ STEVEN S REINEMUND Steven S Reinemund Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 92 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Board of Directors and Shareholders PepsiCo, Inc.: We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet of PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004 and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Cash Flows and Common Shareholders Equity for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2005. We have also audited managements assessment, included in Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). PepsiCo, Inc.s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements, an opinion on managements assessment, and an opinion on the effectiveness of PepsiCo, Inc.s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit of financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2005, in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, managements assessment that PepsiCo, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by COSO. Furthermore, in our opinion, PepsiCo, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by COSO. /s/ KPMG LLP New York, New York February 24, 2006 93 Table of Contents Selected Financial Data (in millions except per share amounts, unaudited) Quarterly FirstQuarter SecondQuarter ThirdQuarter Fourth Quarter Net revenue 2005 $ 6,585 $ 7,697 $ 8,184 $ 10,096 2004 $ 6,131 $ 7,070 $ 7,257 $ 8,803 Gross profit (a) 2005 $ 3,715 $ 4,383 $ 4,669 $ 5,619 2004 $ 3,466 $ 4,039 $ 4,139 $ 4,943 2005 restructuring charges (b) 2005 $ 83 2004 restructuring and impairment charges (c) 2004 $ 150 AJCA tax charge (d) 2005 $ 468 $ (8 ) Net income (e) 2005 $ 912 $ 1,194 $ 864 $ 1,108 2004 $ 804 $ 1,059 $ 1,364 $ 985 Net income per common share basic (e) 2005 $ 0.54 $ 0.71 $ 0.52 $ 0.66 2004 $ 0.47 $ 0.62 $ 0.80 $ 0.58 Net income per common share diluted (e) 2005 $ 0.53 $ 0.70 $ 0.51 $ 0.65 2004 $ 0.46 $ 0.61 $ 0.79 $ 0.58 Cash dividends declared per common share 2005 $ 0.23 $ 0.26 $ 0.26 $ 0.26 2004 $ 0.16 $ 0.23 $ 0.23 $ 0.23 2005 stock price per share (f) High $ 55.71 $ 57.20 $ 56.73 $ 60.34 Low $ 51.34 $ 51.78 $ 52.07 $ 53.55 Close $ 52.62 $ 55.52 $ 54.65 $ 59.08 2004 stock price per share (f) High $ 53.00 $ 55.48 $ 55.71 $ 53.00 Low $ 45.30 $ 50.28 $ 48.41 $ 47.37 Close $ 50.93 $ 54.95 $ 50.84 $ 51.94 The first, second, and third quarters consist of 12 weeks and the fourth quarter consists of 16 weeks in 2004 and 17 weeks in 2005. (a) Reflects net reclassifications in all periods from cost of sales to selling, general and administrative expenses related to the alignment of certain accounting policies in connection with our ongoing BPT initiative. See Note 1. (b) The 2005 restructuring charges were $83 million ($55 million or $0.03 per share after tax). See Note 3. (c) The 2004 restructuring and impairment charges were $150 million ($96 million or $0.06 per share after tax). See Note 3. (d) Represents income tax expense associated with the repatriation of earnings in connection with the AJCA. See Note 5. (e) Fourth quarter 2004 net income reflects a tax benefit from discontinued operations of $38 million or $0.02 per share. See Note 5. (f) Represents the composite high and low sales price and quarterly closing prices for one share of PepsiCo common stock. 94 Table of Contents FiveYear Summary 2005 2004 2003 Net revenue $ 32,562 $ 29,261 $ 26,971 Income from continuing operations $ 4,078 $ 4,174 $ 3,568 Net income $ 4,078 $ 4,212 $ 3,568 Income per common share basic, continuing operations $ 2.43 $ 2.45 $ 2.07 Income per common share diluted, continuing operations $ 2.39 $ 2.41 $ 2.05 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.01 $ 0.850 $ 0.630 Total assets $ 31,727 $ 27,987 $ 25,327 Long term debt $ 2,313 $ 2,397 $ 1,702 Return on invested capital(a) 22.7 % 27.4 % 27.5 % 2002 2001 Net revenue $ 25,112 $ 23,512 Net income $ 3,000 $ 2,400 Income per common share basic $ 1.69 $ 1.35 Income per common share diluted $ 1.68 $ 1.33 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.595 $ 0.575 Total assets $ 23,474 $ 21,695 Long term debt $ 2,187 $ 2,651 Return on invested capital(a) 25.7 % 22.1 % (a) Return on invested capital is defined as adjusted net income divided by the sum of average shareholders equity and average total debt. Adjusted net income is defined as net income plus net interest expense after tax. Net interest expense after tax was $62 million in 2005, $60 million in 2004, $72 million in 2003, $93 million in 2002, and $99 million in 2001. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, and the consolidation of SVE in 2002, the data provided above is not comparable. Includes restructuring and impairment charges of: 2005 2004 2003 2001 Pre tax $ 83 $ 150 $ 147 $ 31 After tax $ 55 $ 96 $ 100 $ 19 Per share $ 0.03 $ 0.06 $ 0.06 $ 0.01 Includes Quaker merger related costs of: 2003 2002 2001 Pre tax $ 59 $ 224 $ 356 After tax $ 42 $ 190 $ 322 Per share $ 0.02 $ 0.11 $ 0.18 The 2005 fiscal year consisted of fifty three weeks compared to fifty two weeks in our normal fiscal year. The 53rd week increased 2005 net revenue by an estimated $418 million and net income by an estimated $57 million (or $0.03 per share). Cash dividends per common share in 2001 are those of pre merger PepsiCo prior to the effective date of the merger. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we reached agreement with the IRS for an open issue related to our discontinued restaurant operations which resulted in a tax benefit of $38 million or $0.02 per share. 95 Table of Contents GLOSSARY Anchor bottlers: The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG), PepsiAmericas, Inc. (PAS) and Pepsi Bottling Ventures (PBV). Bottler: customers who we have granted exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographical area. Bottler funding: financial incentives we give to our bottlers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our beverage products. Business Process Transformation (BPT): our comprehensive multi year effort to drive efficiencies. It includes efforts to physically consolidate, or integrate, key business functions to take advantage of our scale. It also includes moving to a common set of processes that underlie our key activities, and supporting them with common technology application. And finally, it includes our SAP installation, the computer system that will link all of our systems and processes. Concentrate Shipments and Equivalents (CSE): measure of our physical beverage volume to our customers. This measure is reported on our fiscal year basis. Consumers: people who eat and drink our products. Customers: franchise bottlers and independent distributors and retailers. CSD: carbonated soft drinks. Derivatives: financial instruments that we use to manage our risk arising from changes in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and stock prices. Direct Store Delivery (DSD): delivery system used by us and our bottlers to deliver snacks and beverages directly to retail stores where our products are merchandised. Effective net pricing: reflects the year over year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in different package sizes and in different countries. Management operating cash flow: net cash provided by operating activities less capital spending plus sales of property, plant and equipment. It is our primary measure used to monitor cash flow performance. Marketplace spending: sales incentives offered through various programs to our customers and consumers, as well as advertising and other marketing activities. 96 Table of Contents Servings: common metric reflecting our consolidated physical unit volume. Our divisions physical unit measures are converted into servings based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines for single serving sizes of our products. Smart Spot: our initiative that helps consumers find our products that can contribute to healthier lifestyles. Transaction gains and losses: the impact on our consolidated financial statements of exchange rate changes arising from specific transactions. Translation adjustments: the impact of the conversion of our foreign affiliates financial statements to U.S. dollars for the purpose of consolidating our financial statements. 97 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Included in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Our Business Risks. 
 
