Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis OUR BUSINESS Our Operations 22 Our Chairman and President and Chief Executive Officer Perspective 23 Our Customers 28 Our Distribution Network 29 Our Competition 30 Other Relationships 30 Our Business Risks 31 OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue Recognition 36 Brand and Goodwill Valuations 37 Income Tax Expense and Accruals 38 Stock Based Compensation Expense 39 Pension and Retiree Medical Plans 42 OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS Items Affecting Comparability 46 Results of Continuing Operations Consolidated Review 47 Results of Continuing Operations Division Review 51 Frito Lay North America 52 PepsiCo Beverages North America 53 PepsiCo International 55 Quaker Foods North America 57 Our Liquidity and Capital Resources 58 20 Table of Contents Consolidated Statement of Income 61 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 62 Consolidated Balance Sheet 64 Consolidated Statement of Common Shareholders Equity 65 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions 66 Note 2 Our Significant Accounting Policies 70 Note 3 Restructuring and Impairment Charges 73 Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets 74 Note 5 Income Taxes 76 Note 6 Stock Based Compensation 78 Note 7 Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans 80 Note 8 Noncontrolled Bottling Affiliates 85 Note 9 Debt Obligations and Commitments 88 Note 10 Risk Management 91 Note 11 Net Income per Common Share from Continuing Operations 93 Note 12 Preferred and Common Stock 94 Note 13 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 95 Note 14 Supplemental Financial Information 96 MANAGEMENTS RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING 98 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 100 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 101 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY 102 GLOSSARY 103 21 Table of Contents Our discussion and analysis is an integral part of understanding our financial results. Definitions of key terms can be found in the glossary on page 103. Tabular dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts reflect common per share amounts, assume dilution unless noted, and are based on unrounded amounts. Percentage changes are based on unrounded amounts. OUR BUSINESS Our Operations We are a leading global snack and beverage company. We manufacture, market and sell a variety of salty, convenient, sweet and grain based snacks, carbonated and non carbonated beverages and foods. We are organized into four divisions: Frito Lay North America, PepsiCo Beverages North America, PepsiCo International, and Quaker Foods North America. Our North American divisions operate in the United States and Canada. Our international division operates in approximately 200 countries, with our largest operations in Mexico and the United Kingdom. Additional information concerning our divisions and geographic areas is presented in Note 1. Frito Lay North America Frito Lay North America (FLNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets, sells and distributes branded snacks. These snacks include Lays potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips, Tostitos tortilla chips, Cheetos cheese flavored snacks, Fritos corn chips, branded dips, Ruffles potato chips, Quaker Chewy granola bars, SunChips multigrain snacks, Rold Gold pretzels, Santitas tortilla chips, Frito Lay nuts, Grandmas cookies, Munchies snack mix, Gamesa cookies, Lays Stax potato crisps, Funyuns onion flavored rings, Quaker Quakes corn and rice snacks, Miss Vickies potato chips, branded crackers, Quaker snack mix, Smartfood popcorn, Chesters fries, Stacys pita chips and Quaker Fruit & Oatmeal bars. FLNA branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. PepsiCo Beverages North America PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mountain Dew, Gatorade, Tropicana Pure Premium, Lipton, Sierra Mist, Tropicana juice drinks, Propel, Dole and SoBe. PBNA also manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells ready to drink tea, coffee and water products through joint ventures with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks. In addition, PBNA licenses the Aquafina water brand to its bottlers and markets this brand. PBNA sells concentrate and finished goods for some of these brands to authorized bottlers, and some of these branded products are sold directly by us 22 Table of Contents to independent distributors and retailers. The bottlers sell our brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers. PBNAs volume reflects sales to its independent distributors and retailers, as well as the sales of beverages bearing our trademarks that bottlers have reported as sold to independent distributors and retailers. PepsiCo International PepsiCo International (PI) manufactures through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates, a number of leading salty and sweet snack brands including Lays, Walkers, Cheetos, Doritos, Ruffles, Gamesa and Sabritas. Further, PI manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells many Quaker brand snacks. PI also manufactures, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under the brands Pepsi, 7UP, Mirinda, Gatorade, Tropicana and Mountain Dew. These brands are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. However, in certain markets, PI operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. PI also licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers. PI reports two measures of volume. Snack volume is reported on a system wide basis, which includes our own volume and the volume sold by our noncontrolled affiliates. Beverage volume reflects Company owned and authorized bottler sales of beverages bearing our trademarks to independent distributors and retailers. Quaker Foods North America Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNAs products include Quaker oatmeal, Aunt Jemima mixes and syrups, Capn Crunch cereal, Quaker grits, Life cereal, Rice A Roni, Pasta Roni and Near East side dishes. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. Our Chairman and President and Chief Executive Officer Perspective The questions below reflect key questions shareholders often ask about our businesses, and are followed by joint responses from our Chairman, Steve Reinemund, and our President and Chief Executive Officer, Indra Nooyi. PepsiCos product categories and their impact on health continues to capture media, consumer and regulatory focus. How is PepsiCos portfolio faring in this environment? As the transformation of PepsiCos portfolio continues, were able to add more choices for consumers to meet their needs for products that can contribute to healthier lifestyles, and were proud of each and every choice we offer. Our efforts are galvanized by three imperatives: continue making our fun for you products more nutritious, develop new products that address the needs of the entire food pyramid, and try to ensure consumers never have to trade off nutrition and taste. 23 Table of Contents The range of product choices we offer grows each year, as we develop or acquire new products or platforms that range from indulgent to good for you. At the same time, were improving the nutritional profiles of our larger, core brands. For example, changing cooking oils to sunflower oil for both Lays and Ruffles potato chips at FLNA and Walkers crisps in the United Kingdom reduces the saturated fat in these products without sacrificing taste. And were working on developing new sweeteners and adding more nutritious ingredients to our products such as fiber to foods and beverages and omega 3 fatty acids to juices. Our portfolio of more nutritious choices is working well in this environment, evidenced by over two thirds of our North America top line growth in 2006 being driven by products that are PepsiCo Smart Spot eligible meaning they meet authoritative nutritional statements developed by the National Academy of Sciences or the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. What, specifically, is PepsiCo doing to address regulatory pressures relating to health concerns across the globe? On the regulatory and policy side, were firm believers in engaging a range of public and private experts to come to workable solutions on such things as how and where our products are sold and marketed. Were actively engaged with policy and thought leaders, as well as food and beverage industry leaders, to reach decisions on steps we can take to support consumers in their quest for healthier lifestyles. This includes insights from PepsiCos Blue Ribbon Advisory Board, a group of leading health and wellness experts and third party advisors from across the globe, as well as our Ethnic Advisory Boards who have provided insights relating to multicultural consumers. Most recently, PepsiCos work in the United States with the Clinton Foundation, the American Heart Association and the beverage industry, are examples of working proactively to set policies that put the right kinds of products in the right locations in this case, schools. Were working in our international markets in much the same way. An advantaged portfolio of good and better for you products products that are Smart Spot eligible has provided, and will continue to provide, growth opportunities at what we call the intersection of business and public interests. How are you approaching innovation as a means to growth? Innovation demands that we constantly look around the next corner to ensure were providing products that our consumers and retail customers want. We have a relentless focus on innovation, as new products consistently deliver 15% to 20% of our total growth. In 2006 alone, our North American businesses introduced new products that totaled greater than $1 billion in retail sales. More strategically said, were focused on game changing innovation. Clearly, we need to keep our existing big brands fresh while developing products and venturing into new categories. 24 Table of Contents Through a disciplined approach to innovation, weve developed a very strong pipeline for 2007 and beyond, including new products like Flat Earth vegetable and fruit crisps from Frito Lay, and new beverage entries such as Izze, a sparkling beverage made with 70% fruit juice, and Naked Juice, a line of all natural juices and juice smoothies, acquired in January 2007. And well expand on our successes, such as introducing Baked Walkers crisps in the United Kingdom. As the lifeblood of any successful consumer products company, we expect innovation will continue to be a key tool for growth at PepsiCo going forward. How are you addressing rising input costs in your businesses? Structural inflation is a reality we believe will persist over the next few years. Agricultural commodities, energy and certain metals are in a period of protracted inflation thats unlikely to moderate until supply catches up. Fortunately, over the years weve demonstrated the resilience of the PepsiCo portfolio to navigate through these headwinds successfully. And we are confident we will find innovative solutions to cover rising input costs. It will mean pulling all available levers to address inflation, as weve always done, such as finding new productivity, strategically hedging our input costs, and executing prudent and judicious pricing. How are you addressing the carbonated soft drink (CSD) category decline in North America? Rejuvenating the CSD category requires us to deliver new products, new packaging and new benefits to re engage consumers. 2007 has one of the strongest line ups of CSD innovation weve had in many years. In essence, we plan to build a new category for us of "sparkling" beverages. Whether its through Izze sparkling beverages, our new Jazz line, increased distribution of Pepsi Max throughout our system, new choreography packaging for Pepsi, or other new product and packaging news for Diet Pepsi, Mountain Dew and Sierra Mist, we believe weve got an impressive lineup ready for the marketplace. And were supporting our new products as we continue to support our established core brands. Looking ahead, we have increased our investment in truly breakthrough innovations to come, like new sweeteners that we believe hold the power to restoring CSD category growth. You have had good success promoting senior executives from within the Company. What are you doing to ensure you maintain a strong bench and good succession planning? We announced a number of senior executive changes this year, ranging from CEO to senior executive talent of our operating divisions. Because of the deep bench strength, we were able to provide opportunities to current PepsiCo executives ensuring smooth 25 Table of Contents transitions and tapping into literally hundreds of years worth of experience within the Company. If anything, this series of moves underscores the importance of continuously building bench strength in our management group. We continue to place a high priority on sustaining our pool of executive talent, and we clearly understand that in the global competition for talent our people planning processes must be world class. How will Indra Nooyis appointment to CEO change PepsiCos strategic focus or priorities? Our transition of the CEO role is as seamless a transition as any PepsiCo has ever done, largely reflecting the fact that we have co authored the strategies the Company is pursuing. There are no major new strategies that have been put into place since the transition took effect in October of 2006, and we continue to aggressively pursue those strategies that have been driving the Companys growth. How will PepsiCos work with diversity and inclusion, and its work with corporate social responsibility and corporate governance evolve under new leadership? Our commitment to diversity and inclusion as a means to drive our growth remains steadfast. We continue to see the impact of our efforts in our business results, as consumer product offerings, promotions and customer programming benefit from the diverse and inclusive workforce and environment were building. Our focus on corporate responsibility has always been strong and will even be stronger as we contribute to societal growth and help address societal problems. Some would say we have a moral and social obligation. Others would say its simply good business. Either way, we have a major role to play. Similarly for corporate governance, we continue to find ways to strengthen our approach, our tools and our reporting in the name of transparency for our shareholders and the range of constituents who track our business. For example, in 2006, PepsiCo participated in a pilot program at the SEC to test a new electronic filing system. These kinds of priorities, which tie directly to our commitment to responsible corporate citizenship, will remain front and center. Where is PepsiCo in its investment in business process transformation, and specifically its SAP implementation? Business Process Transformation (BPT) is a multi year transformation effort to simplify and synchronize our business processes and tools into one common platform. In 2006, we began implementing SAP. We streamlined our indirect procurement system across our U.S. divisions, and for Quaker, Tropicana and Gatorade, we also streamlined customer orders, implemented a more efficient system for assessing and tracking capital expenditures and advertising and marketing spending, and provided common demand forecasting capability. The project has an attractive business case including both IT cost savings and operating productivity. Additionally, we expect benefits from increased business information. 26 Table of Contents International has been a big contributor to PepsiCos growth over the past few years. How do you plan to sustain this growth? PepsiCo International continues to be the growth engine for the Company delivering on our expectations to grow at about twice the rate of our North American businesses. Growth internationally across a wide range of markets is strong. We believe the strong growth achieved by our PepsiCo International business in 2006 reflects the work of a world class management team, years of investment, and the implementation of a deliberate strategy to create scale in key international markets that will deliver profitable growth. The portfolio of international markets continues to broaden and strengthen as we deliver exciting new products, tailored to local tastes, to consumers in approximately 200 countries. And in developing and emerging markets in particular, growth in per capita GDP levels continues to generate increased demand for our products. PepsiCo made a number of acquisitions in 2006 both in North America and internationally. How is the integration of these businesses going? And what kinds of mergers and acquisitions activity can we expect to see going forward? Our North American acquisitions within the last year included Stacys bagel and pita chips, Izze carbonated beverages and Naked Juice fruit beverages (acquired January 2, 2007). Each acquisition gives us a new opportunity for growth, whether through new product categories or greater reach into emerging retail channels. Internationally, we completed the acquisitions of Duyvis nuts in the Netherlands and Star Foods snacks in Poland, as well as Bluebird snacks in New Zealand in early 2007. Here again, each provides opportunity for growth through new geographies and new product lines internationally. Before any acquisition is made, we apply a disciplined approach to evaluating returns on the investment within a reasonable period and focus on ensuring these businesses add profitable growth to PepsiCo. We feel very good about these acquisitions, and their integration is proceeding well. Going forward, you can expect us to continue acting on our stated strategy of smaller, tuck in acquisitions as a means to help us grow. 27 Table of Contents Whats the next big Power of One frontier? Our Power of One initiatives those directed at accelerating growth for PepsiCo and our retailers through the power of the entire PepsiCo portfolio are most definitely moving to a new level. In 2006, we conducted "Innovation Summits" with our customers to share a holistic view of how shopping and eating habits are fragmenting. Using the insights from these summits, weve worked with our retail partners and tailored our product offerings by account to maximize the potential of our categories and boost performance and results. But our partnerships with customers go beyond top line driving initiatives. Weve expanded it to include end to end supply chain efficiencies. We are refreshing our selling and merchandising activities and critically reviewing all touch points with our customers to eliminate inefficiencies like out of stocks and reduce "pain points," if any. This initiative extends beyond PepsiCo to include our bottling partners members of the extended PepsiCo family who work hand in hand with us on all of our initiatives. Our Customers Our customers include authorized bottlers and independent distributors, including foodservice distributors, and retailers. We normally grant our bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements specify the amount to be paid by our bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and Aquafina royalties, as well as the manufacturing process required for product quality. Since we do not sell directly to the consumer, we rely on and provide financial incentives to our customers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our products. For our independent distributors and retailers, these incentives include volume based rebates, product placement fees, promotions and displays. For our bottlers, these incentives are referred to as bottler funding and are negotiated annually with each bottler to support a variety of trade and consumer programs, such as consumer incentives, advertising support, new product support, and vending and cooler equipment placement. Consumer incentives include coupons, pricing discounts and promotions, such as sweepstakes and 28 Table of Contents other promotional offers. Advertising support is directed at advertising programs and supporting bottler media. New product support includes targeted consumer and retailer incentives and direct marketplace support, such as point of purchase materials, product placement fees, media and advertising. Vending and cooler equipment placement programs support the acquisition and placement of vending machines and cooler equipment. The nature and type of programs vary annually. The level of bottler funding is at our discretion because these incentives are not required by the terms of our bottling contracts. Retail consolidation continues to increase the importance of major customers. In 2006, sales to Wal Mart represented approximately 9% of our total net revenue; and our top five retail customers represented approximately 26% of our 2006 North American net revenue, with Wal Mart representing approximately 13%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. In addition, sales to PBG represented approximately 10% of our total net revenue. See Our Related Party Bottlers and Note 8 for more information on our anchor bottlers. Our Related Party Bottlers We have ownership interests in certain of our bottlers. Our ownership is less than 50%, and since we do not control these bottlers, we do not consolidate their results. We include our share of their net income based on our percentage of economic ownership in our income statement as bottling equity income. We have designated three related party bottlers, PBG, PepsiAmericas, Inc. (PAS) and Pepsi Bottling Ventures LLC (PBV), as our anchor bottlers. Our anchor bottlers distribute approximately 60% of our North American beverage volume and approximately 18% of our international beverage volume. Our anchor bottlers participate in the bottler funding programs described above. Approximately 8% of our total 2006 sales incentives are related to these bottlers. See Note 8 for additional information on these related parties and related party commitments and guarantees. Our Distribution Network Our products are brought to market through direct store delivery, broker warehouse and foodservice and vending distribution networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. Direct Store Delivery We, our bottlers and our distributors operate direct store delivery systems that deliver snacks and beverages directly to retail stores where the products are merchandised by our employees or our bottlers. Direct store delivery enables us to merchandise with maximum visibility and appeal. Direct store delivery is especially well suited to products that are restocked often and respond to in store promotion and merchandising. 29 Table of Contents Broker Warehouse Some of our products are delivered from our manufacturing plants and warehouses to customer warehouses and retail stores. These less costly systems generally work best for products that are less fragile and perishable, have lower turnover, and are less likely to be impulse purchases. Foodservice and Vending Our foodservice and vending sales force distributes snacks, foods and beverages to third party foodservice and vending distributors and operators. Our foodservice and vending sales force also distributes certain beverages through our bottlers. This distribution system supplies our products to schools, businesses, stadiums, restaurants and similar locations. Our Competition Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. In measured channels, our chief beverage competitor, The Coca Cola Company, has a slightly larger share of CSD consumption in the U.S., while we have a larger share of chilled juices and isotonics. In addition, The Coca Cola Company maintains a significant CSD share advantage in many markets outside North America. Further, our snack brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack industry worldwide. Our snack brands face local and regional competitors, as well as national and global snack competitors, and compete on issues related to price, quality, product variety and distribution. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products and the introduction of new products. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allow us to compete effectively. Other Relationships Certain members of our Board of Directors also serve on the boards of certain vendors and customers. Those Board members do not participate in our vendor selection and negotiations nor in our customer negotiations. Our transactions with these vendors and customers are in the normal course of business and are consistent with terms negotiated with other vendors and customers. In addition, certain of our employees serve on the boards of our anchor bottlers and other affiliated companies and do not receive incremental compensation for their Board services. 30 Table of Contents Our Business Risks Our Approach to Managing Risks We are subject to risks in the normal course of business due to adverse developments with respect to: product demand, our reputation, information technology, supply chain, retail consolidation, the loss of major customers and failure to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners, global, economic, environmental and political conditions, the regulatory environment, workforce retention and outsourcing, raw materials and other supplies, competition, and market risks. Please see Risk Factors in Item 1A. above and Market Risks below for more information about these risks. The achievement of our strategic and operating objectives will necessarily involve taking risks. Our risk management process is intended to ensure that risks are taken knowingly and purposefully. As such, we leverage an integrated risk management framework to identify, assess, prioritize, manage, monitor and communicate risks across the Company. This framework includes: the PepsiCo Executive Risk Council (PERC), comprised of a cross functional, geographically diverse, senior management group which identifies, assesses, prioritizes and addresses strategic and reputational risks; Division Risk Committees (DRCs), comprised of cross functional senior management teams which meet regularly each year to identify, assess, prioritize and address division specific operating risks; PepsiCos Risk Management Office, which manages the overall risk management process, provides ongoing guidance, tools and analytical support to the PERC and the DRCs, identifies and assesses potential risks, and facilitates ongoing communication between the parties, as well as to PepsiCos Audit Committee and Board of Directors; and PepsiCo Corporate Audit, which confirms the ongoing effectiveness of the risk management framework through periodic audit and review procedures. In 2006, we continued to focus our mitigation efforts where it was determined that actions were necessary and appropriate to further reduce PepsiCos exposure to risks, 31 Table of Contents integrating those efforts in our businesses operating plans and budgets, where accountability is assigned and performance measured. Some highlights include: To address certain risks related to the demand for our products, such as consumer health concerns about product attributes and ingredients, we continued to focus on the development of products that respond to consumer trends, including formulating products to lower sugar, fats, and sodium and adding ingredients and new products that can deliver nutritional benefits. For example, at FLNA we introduced a new portion control line of 100 calorie offerings, and we also switched to NuSun sunflower oil, an oil containing 90% mono and polyunsaturated fats and less saturated fat than most other cooking oils, for our Lays and Ruffles potato chips. Internationally, we reduced the amount of saturated fats in our Walkers crisps in the United Kingdom by 70% and the amount of salt by 25%. Beyond providing more nutritious product choices, and in an effort to help address the growing concerns regarding childhood obesity trends in the U.S., we joined with the Alliance for a Healthier Generation a joint initiative of the William J. Clinton Foundation and the American Heart Association to set voluntary beverage guidelines for U.S. schools that limit portion sizes and establish voluntary guidelines for snacks and side items in U.S. schools. To help ensure that we maintain our reputation for providing safe convenient foods and beverages, we enhanced the coordination of our division led product integrity efforts through the PepsiCo Product Integrity Council (PPIC), a cross functional forum to share leading practices and confer about areas of potential risk. Through the PPIC, we completed a third party review of our food safety and food security programs which helped identify opportunities to better leverage internal best practices across all of our businesses. Furthermore, we enhanced our product sampling and testing protocols. We continued to enhance our information technology infrastructure and application systems by upgrading our networks and updating or retiring older infrastructure and systems. We signed a multi year managed services contract to consolidate PIs technology infrastructure into three data centers and another multi year services contract to provide and manage PIs data network. The data center services will provide full system and data protection and backup and recovery capabilities, and the data network services will enhance security and provide 24x7x365 monitoring and response capabilities. We expect to fully implement both of these service contracts over the next three years. With respect to our BPT initiative, we continue to build on our learnings and incorporate these into the metrics used to monitor the project. Specific actions taken this year include revising the overall project structure, project resources and timelines. We also continue to invest in process and control resources to build a more automated control environment that remains compliant with the Sarbanes Oxley Act. To address supply chain risks, we continued to assess our capability to mitigate potential business disruptions and increased the coordination of our efforts across IT disaster recovery, crisis management and business continuity. Having recognized the potentially significant impact of a pandemic such as avian 32 Table of Contents influenza on our employees and our business, we formed a cross functional, cross divisional Pandemic Planning Team that worked to develop strategies and tactics to mitigate that impact. Against a challenging trade environment, we continued to work to ensure consistent and equitable trade practices across our customers, to deliver value added product innovation and differentiation, to achieve the most effective trade spend across customers and channels through productivity programs, and to more effectively communicate to our customers the economic advantages of our direct store delivery (DSD) system. To address risks relating to legal and regulatory issues, we have launched an enhanced PepsiCo Code of Conduct training program in multiple languages. We also improved the functionality of our employee hotline to better enable reporting of compliance and ethics concerns and enhanced our process for handling reported incidents and ensuring appropriate corrective action. Furthermore, we completed environmental and health & safety audits that will help focus our mitigation efforts in these areas going forward. As part of our ongoing efforts to maintain a talented workforce, we continued to focus on leveraging diversity and inclusion, designing the right organizational model to meet our business needs and ensuring we have the talent base necessary to lead our growing businesses. Tactically, we worked to expand the breadth and depth of our succession plans and reinforced our focus on managing our people through an increased emphasis on people development as part of our performance management process. To manage our risks related to raw materials, we continued to reduce our input cost volatility across our total portfolio by employing various hedging strategies where appropriate and as market opportunities arose. We also continued to utilize our scale to achieve maximum value across our commodity portfolio and to ensure adequate supply. In addition, we have developed strategic global supplier solutions to help minimize volatility. Market Risks We are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in: commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, stock prices, and discount rates affecting the measurement of our pension and retiree medical liabilities. In the normal course of business, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, including productivity initiatives, global purchasing programs and hedging strategies. Ongoing productivity initiatives involve the identification and effective implementation of meaningful cost saving opportunities or efficiencies. Our global purchasing programs include fixed price purchase orders and pricing agreements. Our hedging strategies include the use of derivatives. Certain derivatives are designated as either cash flow or 33 Table of Contents fair value hedges and qualify for hedge accounting treatment, while others do not qualify and are marked to market through earnings. We do not use derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes, and we limit our exposure to individual counterparties to manage credit risk. The fair value of our derivatives fluctuates based on market rates and prices. The sensitivity of our derivatives to these market fluctuations is discussed below. See Note 10 for further discussion of these derivatives and our hedging policies. See Our Critical Accounting Policies for a discussion of the exposure of our pension plan assets and pension and retiree medical liabilities to risks related to stock prices and discount rates. Inflationary, deflationary and recessionary conditions impacting these market risks also impact the demand for and pricing of our products. See Risk Factors in Item 1A. for further discussion. Commodity Prices Our open commodity derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting had a face value of $55 million at December 30, 2006 and $89 million at December 31, 2005. The open derivative contracts that qualify for hedge accounting resulted in net unrealized gains of less than $1 million at December 30, 2006 and $39 million at December 31, 2005. We estimate that a 10% decline in commodity prices would have reduced our unrealized gains on open contracts to $2 million of unrealized losses in 2006 and $35 million of unrealized gains in 2005. Our open commodity derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting had a face value of $196 million at December 30, 2006 and $129 million at December 31, 2005. The open derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting resulted in net losses of $28 million in 2006 and $3 million in 2005. We estimate that a 10% decline in commodity prices would have increased our net losses on open contracts to $31 million in 2006 and $4 million in 2005. We expect to be able to continue to reduce the impact of increases in our raw material and energy costs through our hedging strategies and ongoing productivity initiatives. Foreign Exchange Financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using period end exchange rates for assets and liabilities and weighted average exchange rates for revenues and expenses. Adjustments resulting from translating net assets are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within shareholders equity under the caption currency translation adjustment. Our operations outside of the U.S. generate approximately 40% of our net revenue, with Mexico, the United Kingdom and Canada comprising approximately 20% of our net revenue. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency risks, including unforeseen economic changes and political unrest. During 2006, net favorable foreign currency, primarily due to appreciation in the Canadian dollar and Brazilian real, contributed almost 1 percentage 34 Table of Contents point to net revenue growth. Currency declines which are not offset could adversely impact our future results. Exchange rate gains or losses related to foreign currency transactions are recognized as transaction gains or losses in our income statement as incurred. We may enter into derivatives to manage our exposure to foreign currency transaction risk. Our foreign currency derivatives had a total face value of $1.0 billion at December 30, 2006 and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2005. The contracts that qualify for hedge accounting resulted in net unrealized losses of $6 million at December 30, 2006 and $9 million at December 31, 2005. We estimate that an unfavorable 10% change in the exchange rates would have resulted in unrealized losses of $86 million in 2006 and $81 million in 2005. The contracts not meeting the criteria for hedge accounting resulted in net losses of $10 million in 2006 and net gains of $14 million in 2005. All losses and gains were offset by changes in the underlying hedged items, resulting in no net impact on earnings. Interest Rates We centrally manage our debt and investment portfolios considering investment opportunities and risks, tax consequences and overall financing strategies. We may use interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps to manage our overall interest expense and foreign exchange risk. These instruments effectively change the interest rate and currency of specific debt issuances. These swaps are entered into concurrently with the issuance of the debt that they are intended to modify. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt. Our counterparty credit risk is considered low because these swaps are entered into only with strong creditworthy counterparties, are generally settled on a net basis and are of relatively short duration. Assuming year end 2006 and 2005 variable rate debt and investment levels, a 1 percentage point increase in interest rates would have decreased net interest expense by $10 million in 2006 and $8 million in 2005. Stock Prices A portion of our deferred compensation liability is tied to certain market indices and our stock price. We manage these market risks with mutual fund investments and prepaid forward contracts for the purchase of our stock. The combined gains or losses on these investments are substantially offset by changes in our deferred compensation liability. OUR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES An appreciation of our critical accounting policies is necessary to understand our financial results. These policies may require management to make difficult and subjective judgments regarding uncertainties, and as a result, such estimates may significantly impact our financial results. The precision of these estimates and the likelihood of future changes depend on a number of underlying variables and a range of 35 Table of Contents possible outcomes. Other than our accounting for pension plans, our critical accounting policies do not involve the choice between alternative methods of accounting. We applied our critical accounting policies and estimation methods consistently in all material respects, and for all periods presented, and have discussed these policies with our Audit Committee. In connection with our ongoing BPT initiative, we aligned certain accounting policies across our divisions in 2005. We conformed our methodology for calculating our bad debt reserves and modified our policy for recognizing revenue for products shipped to customers by third party carriers. Additionally, we conformed our method of accounting for certain costs, primarily warehouse and freight. These changes reduced our net revenue by $36 million and our operating profit by $60 million in 2005. Our critical accounting policies arise in conjunction with the following: revenue recognition, brand and goodwill valuations, income tax expense and accruals, stock based compensation expense, and pension and retiree medical plans. Revenue Recognition Our products are sold for cash or on credit terms. Our credit terms, which are established in accordance with local and industry practices, typically require payment within 30 days of delivery in the U.S., and generally within 30 to 90 days internationally, and may allow discounts for early payment. We recognize revenue upon shipment or delivery to our customers based on written sales terms that do not allow for a right of return. However, our policy for DSD and chilled products is to remove and replace damaged and out of date products from store shelves to ensure that consumers receive the product quality and freshness they expect. Similarly, our policy for warehouse distributed products is to replace damaged and out of date products. Based on our historical experience with this practice, we have reserved for anticipated damaged and out of date products. Our bottlers have a similar replacement policy and are responsible for the products they distribute. Our policy is to provide customers with product when needed. In fact, our commitment to freshness and product dating serves to regulate the quantity of product shipped or delivered. In addition, DSD products are placed on the shelf by our employees with customer shelf space limiting the quantity of product. For product delivered through our other distribution networks, customer inventory levels are monitored. As discussed in Our Customers, we offer sales incentives and discounts through various programs to customers and consumers. Sales incentives and discounts are accounted for as a reduction of revenue and totaled $10.1 billion in 2006, $8.9 billion in 2005 and $7.8 billion in 2004. Sales incentives include payments to customers for performing merchandising activities on our behalf, such as payments for in store 36 Table of Contents displays, payments to gain distribution of new products, payments for shelf space and discounts to promote lower retail prices. A number of our sales incentives, such as bottler funding and customer volume rebates, are based on annual targets, and accruals are established during the year for the expected payout. These accruals are based on contract terms and our historical experience with similar programs and require management judgment with respect to estimating customer participation and performance levels. Differences between estimated expense and actual incentive costs are normally insignificant and are recognized in earnings in the period such differences are determined. The terms of most of our incentive arrangements do not exceed a year, and therefore do not require highly uncertain long term estimates. For interim reporting, we estimate total annual sales incentives for most of our programs and record a pro rata share in proportion to revenue. Certain arrangements, such as fountain pouring rights, may extend beyond one year. The costs incurred to obtain incentive arrangements are recognized over no longer than the contract period as a reduction of revenue, and the remaining balances of $297 million at year end 2006 and $321 million at year end 2005 are included in current assets and other assets on our balance sheet. We estimate and reserve for our bad debt exposure based on our experience with past due accounts. In 2005, our method of determining the reserves was conformed across our divisions in connection with our BPT initiative, as discussed above. Bad debt expense is classified within selling, general and administrative expenses in our income statement. Brand and Goodwill Valuations We sell products under a number of brand names, many of which were developed by us. The brand development costs are expensed as incurred. We also purchase brands and goodwill in acquisitions. Upon acquisition, the purchase price is first allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities, including brands, based on estimated fair value, with any remaining purchase price recorded as goodwill. We believe that a brand has an indefinite life if it has significant market share in a stable macroeconomic environment and a history of strong revenue and cash flow performance that we expect to continue for the foreseeable future. If these perpetual brand criteria are not met, brands are amortized over their expected useful lives, which generally range from five to 40 years. Determining the expected life of a brand requires considerable management judgment and is based on an evaluation of a number of factors, including the competitive environment, market share, brand history and the macroeconomic environment of the countries in which the brand is sold. Perpetual brands and goodwill, including the goodwill that is part of our noncontrolled bottling investment balances, are not amortized. Perpetual brands and goodwill are assessed for impairment at least annually. If the carrying amount of a perpetual brand exceeds its fair value, as determined by its discounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Goodwill is evaluated using a two step impairment test at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit can be a division or business within a division. The first step compares the book value of a reporting unit, including 37 Table of Contents goodwill, with its fair value, as determined by its discounted cash flows. If the book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we complete the second step to determine the amount of goodwill impairment loss that we should record. In the second step, we determine an implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities other than goodwill (including any unrecognized intangible assets). The amount of impairment loss is equal to the excess of the book value of the goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. Amortizable brands are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating or macroeconomic environment. If an evaluation of the undiscounted future cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on its discounted future cash flows. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate future cash flows. Assumptions used in our impairment evaluations, such as forecasted growth rates and our cost of capital, are based on the best available market information and are consistent with our internal forecasts and operating plans. These assumptions could be adversely impacted by certain of the risks discussed in Risk Factors in Item 1A. We did not recognize any impairment charges for perpetual brands or goodwill in the years presented. As of December 30, 2006, we had $5.8 billion of perpetual brands and goodwill, of which approximately 65% related to Tropicana and Walkers. Income Tax Expense and Accruals Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are subject to challenge and that we may not succeed. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit. See Note 5 for additional information regarding our tax reserves. An estimated effective tax rate for a year is applied to our quarterly operating results. In the event there is a significant or unusual item recognized in our quarterly operating results, the tax attributable to that item is separately calculated and recorded at the same time as that item. We consider the tax benefits from the resolution of prior year tax matters to be such items. In 2006, we recognized non cash tax benefits of $602 million (the 2006 Tax Adjustments), substantially all of which related to the Internal Revenue Services (IRS) examination of our consolidated income tax returns for the years 1998 through 2002. The IRS issued a Revenue Agents Report (RAR), and we are in agreement with their conclusion, except for one matter which we continue to dispute. The agreed adjustments relate to transfer pricing and various other transactions, including certain 38 Table of Contents acquisitions, the public offering of PBG, as well as the restructuring of our international snack foods operations during that audit period. Tax law requires items to be included in our tax returns at different times than the items are reflected in our financial statements. As a result, our annual tax rate reflected in our financial statements is different than that reported in our tax returns (our cash tax rate). Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in our tax return, and some differences reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in our tax returns in future years for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in our income statement. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets when we believe expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of a deduction or credit in that tax jurisdiction. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in our financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which we have already taken a deduction in our tax return but have not yet recognized as expense in our financial statements. The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA) created a one time incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed international earnings by providing an 85% dividends received deduction. In 2005, we repatriated approximately $7.5 billion in earnings previously considered indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. and recorded income tax expense of $460 million related to this repatriation. Other than the earnings repatriated, we intend to continue to reinvest earnings outside the U.S. for the foreseeable future and, therefore, have not recognized any U.S. tax expense on these earnings. At December 30, 2006, we had approximately $10.8 billion of undistributed international earnings. In 2006, our annual tax rate was 19.3% compared to 36.1% in 2005 as discussed in Other Consolidated Results. The tax rate in 2006 decreased 16.8 percentage points primarily reflecting the 2006 Tax Adjustments, the absence of the 2005 AJCA tax charge and the resolution of certain state income tax audits in the current year. In 2007, our annual tax rate is expected to be 27.7%, primarily reflecting the absence of the 2006 Tax Adjustments. Stock Based Compensation Expense We believe that we will achieve our best results if our employees act and are rewarded as business owners. Therefore, we believe stock ownership and stock based incentive awards are the best way to align the interests of employees with those of our shareholders. A majority of our employees participate in our stock based compensation programs. Stock option grants are made at the current stock price, meaning each employees exercise price is equivalent to our stock price on the date of grant. Employees must generally provide three additional years of service to earn the grant, referred to as the vesting period. Our options generally have a 10 year term, which means our employees would have up to seven years after the vesting period to elect to pay the exercise price to purchase one share of our stock for each option exercised. 39 Table of Contents Employees benefit from stock options to the extent our stock price appreciates above the exercise price after vesting and during the term of the grant. There have been no reductions to the exercise price of previously issued awards, and any repricing of awards would require approval of our shareholders. Executives who are awarded long term incentives based on their performance are offered the choice of stock options or restricted stock units (RSUs). Executives who elect RSUs receive one RSU for every four stock options that would have otherwise been granted. Senior officers do not have a choice and are granted 50% stock options and 50% RSUs. RSU expense is based on the fair value of PepsiCo stock on the date of grant and is amortized over the vesting period, generally three years. Each RSU is settled in a share of our stock after the vesting period. Vesting of RSU awards for senior officers is contingent upon the achievement of pre established performance targets. We also continued, as we have since 1989, to grant an annual award of stock options to all eligible employees, based on job level or classification, under our broad based stock option program, SharePower. SharePower awards generally have a 10 year term and vest over three years. Method of Accounting We account for our employee stock options, which include grants under our executive program and broad based SharePower program, under the fair value method of accounting using a Black Scholes valuation model to measure stock option expense at the date of grant. All stock grants have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of stock option grants is amortized to expense over the vesting period. On January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 123R, Share Based Payment, under the modified prospective method. Since we had previously accounted for our stock based compensation plans under the fair value provisions of SFAS 123, our adoption did not significantly impact our financial position or our results of operations. Under SFAS 123R, actual tax benefits recognized in excess of tax benefits previously established upon grant are reported as a financing cash inflow. Prior to adoption, such excess tax benefits were reported as an operating cash inflow. Our divisions are held accountable for stock based compensation expense and, therefore, this expense is allocated to our divisions as an incremental employee compensation cost. The allocation of stock based compensation expense in 2006 was approximately 28% to FLNA, 19% to PBNA, 32% to PI, 4% to QFNA and 17% to corporate unallocated expenses. The expense allocated to our divisions excludes any impact of changes in our Black Scholes assumptions during the year which reflect market conditions over which division management has no control. Therefore, any variances between allocated expense and our actual expense are recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. 40 Table of Contents Our Assumptions Our Black Scholes model estimates the expected value our employees will receive from the options based on a number of assumptions, such as interest rates, employee exercises, our stock price and dividend yield. Our weighted average fair value assumptions include: Estimated2007 2006 2005 2004 Expected life 6 yrs. 6 yrs. 6 yrs. 6 yrs. Risk free interest rate 5.7% 4.5% 3.8% 3.3% Expected volatility 18% 18% 23% 26% Expected dividend yield 1.9% 1.9% 1.8% 1.8% The expected life is a significant assumption as it determines the period for which the risk free interest rate, volatility and dividend yield must be applied. The expected life is the period over which our employee groups are expected to hold their options. It is based on our historical experience with similar grants. The risk free interest rate is based on the expected U.S. Treasury rate over the expected life. Volatility reflects movements in our stock price over the most recent historical period equivalent to the expected life. Dividend yield is estimated over the expected life based on our stated dividend policy and forecasts of net income, share repurchases and stock price. 2007 Estimated Expense and Sensitivity of Assumptions Our stock based compensation expense, including RSUs, is as follows: Estimated2007 2006 2005 Stock based compensation expense $271 $270 $311 If we assumed a 100 basis point change in the following assumptions, our estimated 2007 stock based compensation expense would increase/(decrease) as follows: 100 Basis PointIncrease 100 Basis PointDecrease Risk free interest rate $6 $(6) Expected volatility $1 $(1) Expected dividend yield $(9) $10 If the expected life were assumed to be one year longer, our estimated 2007 stock based compensation expense would increase by $7 million. If the expected life were assumed to be one year shorter, our estimated 2007 stock based compensation expense would decrease by $8 million. As noted, changing the assumed expected life impacts all of the Black Scholes valuation assumptions as the risk free interest rate, expected volatility and expected dividend yield are estimated over the expected life. 41 Table of Contents Pension and Retiree Medical Plans Our pension plans cover full time employees in the U.S. and certain international employees. Benefits are determined based on either years of service or a combination of years of service and earnings. U.S. and Canada retirees are also eligible for medical and life insurance benefits (retiree medical) if they meet age and service requirements. Generally, our share of retiree medical costs is capped at specified dollar amounts that vary based upon years of service, with retirees contributing the remainder of the cost. On December 30, 2006, we adopted SFAS 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) (SFAS 158). SFAS 158 requires that we recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of our pension and retiree medical plans (our Plans) as an asset or liability on our December 30, 2006 balance sheet. Subsequent changes in the funded status will be recognized in comprehensive income in the year in which they occur. SFAS 158 also requires that, beginning in 2008, our assumptions used to measure our annual pension and retiree medical expenses be determined as of the balance sheet date, and all plan assets and liabilities be reported as of that date. Currently, the assumptions used to measure our annual pension and retiree medical expenses are determined as of September 30 (measurement date) and all plan assets and liabilities are generally reported as of that date. In accordance with SFAS 158, prior year amounts have not been adjusted. For further information regarding the impact of our adoption of SFAS 158, see Note 7. Our Assumptions The determination of pension and retiree medical plan obligations and related expenses requires the use of assumptions to estimate the amount of the benefits that employees earn while working, as well as the present value of those benefits. Annual pension and retiree medical expense amounts are principally based on four components: 1) the value of benefits earned by employees for working during the year (service cost), 2) increase in the liability due to the passage of time (interest cost), and 3) other gains and losses as discussed below, reduced by 4) expected return on plan assets for our funded plans. Significant assumptions used to measure our annual pension and retiree medical expenses include: the interest rate used to determine the present value of liabilities (discount rate); certain employee related factors, such as turnover, retirement age and mortality; for pension expense, the expected return on assets in our funded plans and the rate of salary increases for plans where benefits are based on earnings; and for retiree medical expense, health care cost trend rates. Our assumptions reflect our historical experience and managements best judgment regarding future expectations. Due to the significant management judgment involved, our assumptions could have a material impact on the measurement of our pension and retiree medical benefit expenses and obligations. 42 Table of Contents At each measurement date, the discount rate is based on interest rates for high quality, long term corporate debt securities with maturities comparable to those of our liabilities. In the U.S., we use the Moodys Aa Corporate Index yield and adjust for differences between the average duration of the bonds in this Index and the average duration of our benefit liabilities, based upon a published index. The expected return on pension plan assets is based on our historical experience, our pension plan investment strategy and our expectations for long term rates of return. Our pension plan investment strategy is reviewed annually and is established based upon plan liabilities, an evaluation of market conditions, tolerance for risk, and cash requirements for benefit payments. We use a third party advisor to assist us in determining our investment allocation and modeling our long term rate of return assumptions. Our current investment allocation target for our U.S. plans is 60% in equity securities, with the balance in fixed income securities. Our expected long term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is 7.8%, reflecting estimated long term rates of return of 9.3% from equity securities and 5.8% from fixed income securities. We use a market related value method that recognizes each years asset gain or loss over a five year period. Therefore, it takes five years for the gain or loss from any one year to be fully included in the other gains and losses calculation described below. Other gains and losses resulting from actual experience differing from our assumptions and from changes in our assumptions are also determined at each measurement date. If this net accumulated gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of plan assets or liabilities, a portion of the net gain or loss is included in expense for the following year. The cost or benefit of plan changes that increase or decrease benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost/(credit)) is included in earnings on a straight line basis over the average remaining service period of those employees expected to benefit, which is approximately 11 years for pension expense and approximately 13 years for retiree medical. Weighted average assumptions for pension and retiree medical expenses are as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Pension Expense discount rate 5.7% 5.6% 6.1% Expected rate of return on plan assets 7.7% 7.7% 7.8% Expected rate of salary increases 4.5% 4.4% 4.3% Retiree medical Expense discount rate 5.8% 5.7% 6.1% Current health care cost trend rate 9.0% 10.0% 11.0% 43 Table of Contents Future Expense The estimated changes in pension and retiree medical expense are as follows: Pension Retiree Medical 2006 expense $ 417 $ 127 Increase in discount rate (15 ) (2 ) (Decrease)/Increase in experience loss amortization (1 ) 1 Impact of contributions (2 ) Other (3 ) 4 2007 estimated expense $ 396 $ 130 Pension and retiree medical service costs, measured at a fixed discount rate but including the effect of demographic assumption changes, as well as the effects of gains and losses due to demographics, are reflected in division results for North American employees. Division results also include interest costs, measured at a fixed discount rate, for retiree medical plans. Interest costs for the pension plans, measured at a fixed discount rate, and the effect of changes in discount rates, gains and losses other than those due to demographics, pension asset returns and the impact of pension funding are all reflected in corporate unallocated expenses. Based on our current assumptions, which reflect our prior experience, current plan provisions and expectations for future experience, we expect our pension expense to decrease slightly in 2008, declining to approximately $360 million by 2012 as unrealized losses are amortized. If our assumptions and our plan provisions for retiree medical costs remain unchanged and our experience mirrors these assumptions, we expect our annual retiree medical expense beyond 2007 to approximate $130 million. Sensitivity of Assumptions A decrease in the discount rate or in the expected rate of return assumptions would increase pension expense. The estimated impact of a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate on 2007 pension expense is an increase of approximately $37 million. The estimated impact on 2007 pension expense of a 25 basis point decrease in the expected rate of return is an increase of approximately $16 million. See Note 7 regarding the sensitivity of our retiree medical cost assumptions. Future Funding We make contributions to pension trusts maintained to provide plan benefits for certain pension plans. These contributions are made in accordance with applicable tax regulations that provide for current tax deductions for our contributions, and taxation to the employee only upon receipt of plan benefits. Generally, we do not fund our pension plans when our contributions would not be currently deductible. 44 Table of Contents Our pension contributions for 2006 were $59 million, all of which were non discretionary. In 2007, we expect to make contributions of up to $150 million with up to $75 million expected to be discretionary. Our cash payments for retiree medical are estimated to be approximately $85 million in 2007. As our retiree medical plans are not subject to regulatory funding requirements, we fund these plans on a pay as you go basis. For estimated future benefit payments, including our pay as you go payments as well as those from trusts, see Note 7. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements (SAB 108), to address diversity in practice in quantifying financial statement misstatements. SAB 108 requires that we quantify misstatements based on their impact on each of our financial statements and related disclosures. On December 30, 2006, we adopted SAB 108. Our adoption of SAB 108 did not impact our financial statements. In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in tax positions. FIN 48 requires that we recognize in our financial statements, the impact of a tax position, if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective as of the beginning of our 2007 fiscal year, with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. We do not expect our adoption of FIN 48 to materially impact our financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS 157), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The provisions of SFAS 157 are effective as of the beginning of our 2008 fiscal year. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS 157 on our financial statements. 45 Table of Contents OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS Items Affecting Comparability The year over year comparisons of our financial results are affected by the following items: 2006 2005 Net revenue 53rd week $ 418 Operating profit 2006 restructuring and impairment charges $ (67 ) 53rd week $ 75 2005 restructuring charges $ (83 ) Net income 2006 restructuring and impairment charges $ (43 ) 2006 Tax Adjustments $ 602 PepsiCo share of PBG tax settlement $ 18 AJCA tax charge $ (460 ) 53rd week $ 57 2005 restructuring charges $ (55 ) Net income per common share diluted 2006 restructuring and impairment charges $ (0.03 ) 2006 Tax Adjustments $ 0.36 PepsiCo share of PBG tax settlement $ 0.01 AJCA tax charge $ (0.27 ) 53rd week $ 0.03 2005 restructuring charges $ (0.03 ) For the items affecting our 2004 results, see Notes 3 and 5, as well as our 2005 Annual Report. 53rd week In 2005, we had an additional week of results (53rd week). Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December, resulting in an additional week of results every five or six years. 2006 Restructuring and Impairment Charges In 2006, we incurred a charge of $67 million in conjunction with consolidating the manufacturing network at FLNA by closing two plants in the U.S., and rationalizing other assets, to increase manufacturing productivity and supply chain efficiencies. 2005 Restructuring Charges In 2005, we incurred restructuring charges of $83 million to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions. 46 Table of Contents 2006 Tax Adjustments In 2006, we recognized non cash tax benefits of $602 million, substantially all of which related to the IRSs examination of our consolidated tax returns for the years 1998 through 2002. PepsiCo Share of PBG Tax Settlement In 2006, the IRS concluded its examination of PBGs consolidated income tax returns for the years 1999 through 2000 (PBGs Tax Settlement). Consequently, a non cash benefit of $21 million was included in bottling equity income as part of recording our share of PBGs financial results. AJCA Tax Charge In 2005, we repatriated approximately $7.5 billion in earnings previously considered indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. in connection with the AJCA and recorded income tax expense of $460 million related to this repatriation. Results of Continuing Operations Consolidated Review In the discussions of net revenue and operating profit below, effective net pricing reflects the year over year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in different package sizes and in different countries. Servings Since our divisions each use different measures of physical unit volume (i.e., kilos, gallons, pounds and case sales), a common servings metric is necessary to reflect our consolidated physical unit volume. Our divisions physical volume measures are converted into servings based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines for single serving sizes of our products. In 2006, total servings increased 5.5% over the prior year, as servings for beverages worldwide grew over 6% and servings for snacks worldwide grew 5%. All of our divisions positively contributed to the total servings growth. In 2005, total servings increased 7% compared to 2004, as servings for beverages worldwide grew over 7% and servings for snacks worldwide grew 6%. 47 Table of Contents Net Revenue and Operating Profit Change 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 Total net revenue $ 35,137 $ 32,562 $ 29,261 8 % 11 % Operating profit FLNA $ 2,615 $ 2,529 $ 2,389 3 % 6 % PBNA 2,055 2,037 1,911 1 % 7 % PI 1,948 1,607 1,323 21 % 21 % QFNA 554 537 475 3 % 13 % Corporate unallocated (733 ) (788 ) (689 ) (7 )% 14 % Restructuring and impairment charges (150 ) Total operating profit $ 6,439 $ 5,922 $ 5,259 9 % 13 % Total operating profit margin 18.3 % 18.2 % 18.0 % 0.1 0.2 2006 Net revenue increased 8% primarily reflecting higher volume and positive effective net pricing across all divisions. The volume gains and the effective net pricing each contributed 3 percentage points to net revenue growth. Acquisitions contributed 1 percentage point and foreign exchange contributed almost 1 percentage point to net revenue growth. The absence of the prior years additional week reduced net revenue by over 1 percentage point and reduced volume growth by almost 1 percentage point. Total operating profit increased 9% and margin increased 0.1 percentage points. The operating profit gains reflect the net revenue growth, partially offset by the impact of higher raw material and energy costs across all divisions. The absence of the prior years additional week reduced operating profit growth by over 1 percentage point. 2005 Net revenue increased 11% reflecting, across all divisions, increased volume, favorable effective net pricing and net favorable foreign currency movements. The volume gains contributed 6 percentage points, the effective net pricing contributed 3 percentage points and the net favorable foreign currency movements contributed over 1 percentage point. The 53rd week contributed over 1 percentage point to revenue growth and almost 1 percentage point to volume growth. Total operating profit increased 13% and margin increased 0.2 percentage points. The operating profit gains primarily reflect leverage from the revenue growth, partially offset by higher selling and distribution (S&D) expenses and increased cost of sales, largely due to higher raw materials, energy and S&D labor costs, as well as higher advertising and 48 Table of Contents marketing expenses. Total operating profit margin also benefited from a favorable comparison to prior year restructuring and impairment charges. The additional week in 2005 contributed over 1 percentage point to total operating profit growth. Corporate Unallocated Expenses Corporate unallocated expenses include the costs of our corporate headquarters, centrally managed initiatives, such as our BPT initiative in North America, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and certain commodity derivative gains and losses, as well as profit in inventory elimination adjustments for our noncontrolled bottling affiliates and certain other items. In 2006, corporate unallocated expenses decreased $55 million primarily reflecting the absence of a non recurring charge of $55 million in the prior year to conform our method of accounting across all divisions, primarily for warehouse and freight costs. Higher costs associated with our BPT initiative of $35 million, as well as the unfavorable comparison to the prior years $25 million gain in connection with the settlement of a class action lawsuit related to our purchases of high fructose corn syrup from 1991 to 1995, were offset by the favorable impact of certain other corporate items. In 2005, corporate unallocated expenses increased 14%. This increase primarily reflects higher costs associated with our BPT initiative which contributed 7 percentage points, increased support behind health and wellness and innovation initiatives which contributed 5 percentage points, and Corporate departmental expenses and restructuring charges which each contributed 2 percentage points to the increase. In 2005, items of a non recurring nature included charges of $55 million to conform our method of accounting across all divisions, primarily for warehouse and freight costs, and a gain of $25 million in connection with the settlement of a class action lawsuit related to our purchases of high fructose corn syrup from 1991 to 1995. In 2004, we recorded a charge of $50 million for the settlement of a contractual dispute with a former business partner. Other Consolidated Results Change 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 Bottling equity income $ 616 $ 557 $ 380 11 % 46 % Interest expense, net $ (66 ) $ (97 ) $ (93 ) (33 )% 4 % Annual tax rate 19.3 % 36.1 % 24.7 % Net income continuing operations $ 5,642 $ 4,078 $ 4,174 38 % (2 )% Net income per common share continuing operations diluted $ 3.34 $ 2.39 $ 2.41 40 % (1 )% 49 Table of Contents Bottling equity income includes our share of the net income or loss of our noncontrolled bottling affiliates as described in Our Customers. Our interest in these bottling investments may change from time to time. Any gains or losses from these changes, as well as other transactions related to our bottling investments, are also included on a pre tax basis. We continue to sell shares of PBG stock to reduce our ownership to the level at the time of PBGs initial public offering, since our ownership has increased as a result of PBGs share repurchase program. We sold 10.0 million and 7.5 million shares of PBG stock in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The resulting lower ownership percentage reduces the equity income from PBG that we recognize. 2006 Bottling equity income increased 11% primarily reflecting a $186 million pre tax gain on our sale of PBG stock, which compared favorably to a $126 million pre tax gain in the prior year. The non cash gain of $21 million from our share of PBGs Tax Settlement was fully offset by lower equity income from our anchor bottlers in the current year, primarily resulting from the impact of their respective adoptions of SFAS 123R in 2006. Net interest expense decreased 33% primarily reflecting higher average rates on our investments and lower debt balances, partially offset by lower investment balances and the impact of higher average rates on our borrowings. The tax rate decreased 16.8 percentage points compared to prior year primarily reflecting the 2006 Tax Adjustments, the absence of the 2005 AJCA tax charge and the resolution of certain state income tax audits in the current year. Net income increased 38% and the related net income per share increased 40%. These increases primarily reflect the 2006 Tax Settlement, the absence of the AJCA tax charge and our solid operating profit growth. 2005 Bottling equity income increased 46% reflecting $126 million of pre tax gains on our sales of PBG stock, as well as stronger bottler results. Net interest expense increased 4% reflecting the impact of higher debt levels, substantially offset by higher investment rates and cash balances. The tax rate increased 11.4 percentage points reflecting the $460 million AJCA tax charge, as well as the absence of income tax benefits of $266 million recorded in 2004 related to a reduction in foreign tax accruals following the resolution of certain open tax items with foreign tax authorities and a refund claim related to prior U.S. tax settlements. This increase was partially offset by increased international profit which is taxed at a lower rate. Net income from continuing operations decreased 2% and the related net income per common share from continuing operations decreased 1%. These decreases reflect the 50 Table of Contents impact of the tax items discussed above, partially offset by our operating profit growth, increased bottling equity income, which includes the gain on our PBG stock sale, the impact of the 53rd week, a favorable comparison to prior year restructuring and impairment charges, and for net income per share, the impact of our share repurchases. Results of Continuing Operations Division Review The results and discussions below are based on how our Chief Executive Officer monitors the performance of our divisions. For additional information on these items and our divisions, see Note 1. FLNA PBNA PI QFNA Total Net Revenue, 2006 $ 10,844 $ 9,565 $ 12,959 $ 1,769 $ 35,137 Net Revenue, 2005 $ 10,322 $ 9,146 $ 11,376 $ 1,718 $ 32,562 % Impact of: Volume 1 % 3 %(a) 6 %(a) 1 % 3 % Effective net pricing 3 1 4 2 3 Foreign exchange 0.5 1 1 1 Acquisitions/divestitures 0.5 3 1 % Change(b) 5 % 5 % 14 % 3 % 8 % FLNA PBNA PI QFNA Total Net Revenue, 2005 $ 10,322 $ 9,146 $ 11,376 $ 1,718 $ 32,562 Net Revenue, 2004 $ 9,560 $ 8,313 $ 9,862 $ 1,526 $ 29,261 % Impact of: Volume 4.5 % 4 %(a) 8 %(a) 9 % 6 % Effective net pricing 3 5 2.5 3 3 Foreign exchange 0.5 3 1 1 Acquisitions/divestitures 2 0.5 % Change(b) 8 % 10 % 15 % 13 % 11 % (a) For beverages sold to our bottlers, volume growth is based on our concentrate shipments and equivalents. (b) Amounts may not sum due to rounding. 51 Table of Contents Frito Lay North America % Change 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 Net revenue $ 10,844 $ 10,322 $ 9,560 5 8 Operating profit $ 2,615 $ 2,529 $ 2,389 3 6 2006 Net revenue grew 5% reflecting volume growth of 1% and positive effective net pricing due to salty snack pricing actions and favorable mix. Pound volume grew primarily due to double digit growth in SunChips, Multipack and Quaker Rice Cakes. These volume gains were partially offset by low single digit declines in trademark Lays and Doritos. Overall, salty snacks revenue grew 5% with volume growth of 1%, and other macro snacks revenue grew 9% with volume growth of 6%. The Stacys Pita Chip Company acquisition contributed approximately 0.5 percentage points to both revenue and volume growth. The absence of the prior years additional week reduced volume and net revenue growth by 2 percentage points. Operating profit grew 3% reflecting the net revenue growth. This growth was partially offset by higher commodity costs, primarily cooking oil and energy. Operating profit was also negatively impacted by almost 3 percentage points as a result of a fourth quarter charge for the consolidation of the manufacturing network, including the closure of two plants and rationalization of other manufacturing assets. The absence of the prior years additional week, which reduced operating profit growth by 2 percentage points, was largely offset by the impact of restructuring charges in the prior year to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions. Smart Spot eligible products represented approximately 15% of net revenue. These products experienced double digit revenue growth, while the balance of the portfolio had low single digit revenue growth. 2005 Net revenue grew 8% reflecting volume growth of 4.5% and positive effective net pricing driven by salty snack pricing actions and favorable mix on both salty and convenience foods products. Pound volume grew primarily due to mid single digit growth in trademark Lays potato chips, high single digit growth in salty trademark Tostitos, double digit growth in Santitas, mid single digit growth in trademark Cheetos, high single digit growth in Dips and Fritos, and double digit growth in SunChips. These gains were partially offset by the discontinuance of Toastables and Doritos Rollitos. Overall, salty snacks revenue grew 8% with volume growth of 5%, and other macro snacks revenue grew 13% with volume growth of 1%. Other macro snacks products revenue benefited from favorable mix. The additional week contributed 2 percentage points to volume and net revenue growth. 52 Table of Contents Operating profit grew 6% reflecting positive effective net pricing actions and volume growth. This growth was offset by higher S&D costs resulting from increased labor and benefit charges and fuel costs; higher cost of sales, driven by raw materials, natural gas and freight; and increased advertising and marketing costs. Operating profit was also negatively impacted by more than 1 percentage point as a result of fourth quarter charges to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions. The additional week contributed 2 percentage points to operating profit growth. Smart Spot eligible products represented approximately 13% of net revenue. These products experienced double digit revenue growth, while the balance of the portfolio had high single digit revenue growth. PepsiCo Beverages North America % Change 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 Net revenue $ 9,565 $ 9,146 $ 8,313 5 10 Operating profit $ 2,055 $ 2,037 $ 1,911 1 7 2006 Bottler case sales (BCS) volume grew 4%. The volume increase was driven by a 14% increase in non carbonated beverages, partially offset by a 2% decline in CSDs. The non carbonated portfolio performance was driven by double digit growth in trademark Aquafina, Gatorade, Lipton ready to drink teas, Tropicana juice drinks and Propel. Tropicana Pure Premium experienced a low single digit decline in volume. The decline in CSDs reflects a low single digit decline in trademark Pepsi, partially offset by a mid single digit increase in trademark Sierra Mist and a low single digit increase in trademark Mountain Dew. Across the brands, regular CSDs experienced a low single digit decline and diet CSDs declined slightly. The additional week in 2005 had no significant impact on volume growth as bottler volume is reported based on a calendar month. Net revenue grew 5%. Positive mix contributed to the revenue growth, reflecting the strength of non carbonated beverages. Price increases taken in 2006, primarily on concentrate, Tropicana Pure Premium and fountain, were offset by overall higher trade spending. The absence of the prior years additional week reduced net revenue growth by 1 percentage point. Operating profit increased 1% primarily reflecting the net revenue growth and lower advertising and marketing expenses. Higher raw material costs, primarily oranges, increased supply chain costs in Gatorade and higher energy costs substantially offset the operating profit increase. Total marketplace spending for the year increased, reflecting a shift from advertising and marketing spending to trade spending. Additionally, the impact of more favorable settlements of trade spending accruals in 2005 was mostly offset by a favorable insurance settlement of $29 million in 2006. The absence of the 53 Table of Contents prior years additional week, which reduced operating profit growth by 1 percentage point, was fully offset by the impact of charges taken in the fourth quarter of 2005 to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions. Smart Spot eligible products represented over 70% of net revenue. These products experienced high single digit revenue growth, while the balance of the portfolio declined in the low single digit range. 2005 Net revenue grew 10% and BCS volume grew 4%. The volume increase was driven by a 16% increase in non carbonated beverages, partially offset by a 1% decline in CSDs. Within non carbonated beverages, Gatorade, trademark Aquafina, Tropicana juice drinks, Propel and SoBe all experienced double digit growth. Above average summer temperatures across the country, as well as the launch of new products such as Aquafina FlavorSplash and Gatorade Lemonade earlier in the year, drove Gatorade and trademark Aquafina growth. Tropicana Pure Premium experienced a low single digit decline resulting from price increases taken in the first quarter. The decline in CSDs reflects low single digit declines in trademark Pepsi and trademark Mountain Dew, slightly offset by low single digit growth in Sierra Mist. Across the brands, a low single digit decline in regular CSDs was partially offset by low single digit growth in diet CSDs. The additional week in 2005 had no significant impact on volume growth as bottler volume is reported based on a calendar month. Net revenue also benefited from 5 percentage points of favorable effective net pricing, reflecting the continued migration from CSDs to non carbonated beverages and price increases taken in the first quarter, primarily on concentrate and Tropicana Pure Premium, partially offset by increased trade spending in 2005. The additional week in 2005 contributed 1 percentage point to net revenue growth. Operating profit increased nearly 7%, primarily reflecting net revenue growth. This increase was partially offset by higher raw material, energy and transportation costs, as well as increased advertising and marketing expenses. The additional week in 2005 contributed 1 percentage point to operating profit growth and was fully offset by a 1 percentage point decline related to charges taken in 2005 to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions. Smart Spot eligible products represented almost 70% of net revenue. These products experienced double digit revenue growth, while the balance of the portfolio grew in the low single digit range. 54 Table of Contents PepsiCo International % Change 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 Net revenue $ 12,959 $ 11,376 $ 9,862 14 15 Operating profit $ 1,948 $ 1,607 $ 1,323 21 21 2006 International snacks volume grew 9%, reflecting double digit growth in Russia, Turkey, Egypt and India, and single digit growth at Sabritas in Mexico. Overall, the Europe, Middle East & Africa region grew 17%, the Latin America region grew 2.5% and the Asia Pacific region grew 12%. Acquisitions of two businesses in Europe in 2006 increased the Europe, Middle East & Africa region volume growth by nearly 6 percentage points. The acquisition of a business in Australia increased the Asia Pacific region volume growth by 1 percentage point. In aggregate, acquisitions contributed 2 percentage points to the reported total PepsiCo International snack volume growth rate. The absence of the prior years additional week reduced the growth rate by 1 percentage point. Beverage volume grew 9%, reflecting broad based increases led by double digit growth in the Middle East, China, Argentina, Russia and Venezuela. The Europe, Middle East & Africa region grew 11%, the Asia Pacific region grew 9% and the Latin America region grew 7%. Acquisitions contributed 1 percentage point to the Europe, Middle East & Africa region volume growth rate and contributed slightly to the reported total PepsiCo International beverage volume growth rate. CSDs grew at a high single digit rate while non carbonated beverages grew at a double digit rate. Net revenue grew 14%, primarily as a result of the broad based volume growth and favorable effective net pricing. The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures contributed nearly 3 percentage points to net revenue growth. Foreign currency contributed 1 percentage point of growth. The absence of the prior years additional week reduced net revenue growth by 1 percentage point. Operating profit grew 21%, driven primarily by the net revenue growth, partially offset by increased raw material and energy costs. The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures had no impact on the growth rate. Foreign currency contributed 1 percentage point of growth. The absence of the prior years additional week, which reduced the operating profit growth rate by 1 percentage point, was fully offset by the impact of charges taken in 2005 to reduce costs in our operations and rationalize capacity. 2005 International snacks volume grew 7%, reflecting growth of 11% in the Europe, Middle East & Africa region, 5% in the Latin America region and 6% in the Asia Pacific region. Acquisition and divestiture activity, principally the divestiture in 2004 of our interest in a 55 Table of Contents South Korea joint venture, reduced Asia Pacific region volume by 11 percentage points. The acquisition of a business in Romania late in 2004 increased the Europe, Middle East & Africa region volume growth by 3 percentage points. Cumulatively, our divestiture and acquisition activities did not impact the reported total PepsiCo International snack volume growth rate. The overall gains reflected mid single digit growth at Sabritas in Mexico, double digit growth in India, Turkey, Russia, Australia and China, partially offset by a low single digit decline at Walkers in the United Kingdom. The decline at Walkers is due principally to marketplace pressures. The additional week contributed 1 percentage point to international snack volume growth. Beverage volume grew 11%, reflecting growth of 14% in the Europe, Middle East & Africa region, 11% in the Asia Pacific region and 6% in the Latin America region. Acquisitions had no significant impact on the reported total PepsiCo International beverage volume growth rate. Broad based increases were led by double digit growth in the Middle East, China, Argentina, Venezuela and Russia. Carbonated soft drinks and non carbonated beverages both grew at a double digit rate. The additional week had no impact on beverage volume growth as volume is reported based on a calendar month. Net revenue grew 15%, primarily as a result of the broad based volume growth and favorable effective net pricing. Foreign currency contributed almost 3 percentage points of growth reflecting the favorable Mexican peso and Brazilian real, partially offset by the unfavorable British pound. Acquisitions and divestitures contributed almost 2 percentage points of growth. The additional week contributed 1 percentage point to revenue growth. Cumulatively, the impact of foreign currency, acquisitions and divestitures, and the additional week on net revenue was 5 percentage points. Operating profit grew 21% driven largely by the broad based volume growth and favorable effective net pricing, partially offset by increased energy and raw material costs. Foreign currency contributed 4 percentage points of growth based on the favorable Mexican peso and Brazilian real. The net favorable impact from acquisition and divestiture activity, primarily the acquisition of General Mills minority interest in Snack Ventures Europe in the first quarter of 2005, contributed 2 percentage points of growth. The additional week contributed 1 percentage point to operating profit growth which was fully offset by a 1 percentage point decline in operating profit growth related to fourth quarter charges to reduce costs in our operations and rationalize capacity. 56 Table of Contents Quaker Foods North America % Change 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 Net revenue $ 1,769 $ 1,718 $ 1,526 3 13 Operating profit $ 554 $ 537 $ 475 3 13 2006 Net revenue grew 3% and volume increased 1%. The volume increase reflects mid single digit growth in Oatmeal, high single digit growth in Life cereal and low single digit growth in Capn Crunch cereal. These increases were partially offset by a low single digit decline in Aunt Jemima syrup and mix and a mid single digit decline in Rice A Roni. Net revenue growth was also driven by favorable effective net pricing, which contributed almost 2 percentage points to net revenue growth, and favorable Canadian foreign exchange rates which contributed almost 1 percentage point. The absence of the prior years additional week reduced both net revenue and volume growth by approximately 2 percentage points. Operating profit increased 3% primarily reflecting the net revenue growth. Increased cost of sales, primarily driven by higher raw material and energy costs, were largely offset by lower advertising and marketing expenses. The absence of the prior years additional week reduced operating profit growth by approximately 2 points. Smart Spot eligible products represented approximately 55% of net revenue and had mid single digit net revenue growth. The balance of the portfolio experienced a low single digit decline. The absence of the prior years additional week negatively impacted these results. 2005 Net revenue increased 13% and volume increased 9%. The volume increase reflects double digit growth in Oatmeal, Aunt Jemima syrup and mix, Rice A Roni and Pasta Roni, as well as high single digit growth in Capn Crunch cereal and mid single digit growth in Life cereal. Higher effective net pricing contributed nearly 3 percentage points of growth reflecting favorable product mix, the settlement of prior year trade spending accruals and price increases on ready to eat cereals taken in the third quarter of 2004. Favorable Canadian exchange rates contributed nearly 1 percentage point to net revenue growth. The additional week in 2005 contributed approximately 2 percentage points to both net revenue and volume growth. Operating profit increased 13% reflecting the net revenue growth. This growth was partially offset by higher advertising and marketing costs behind programs for core brands and innovation, as well as an unfavorable cost of sales comparison primarily due to higher energy and raw material costs in the latter part of 2005. The additional week in 2005 contributed approximately 2 percentage points to operating profit growth. 57 Table of Contents Smart Spot eligible products represented approximately half of net revenue and had double digit revenue growth. The balance of the portfolio also experienced double digit revenue growth. Our Liquidity and Capital Resources Our strong cash generating capability and financial condition give us ready access to capital markets throughout the world. Our principal source of liquidity is our operating cash flow. This cash generating capability is one of our fundamental strengths and provides us with substantial financial flexibility in meeting operating, investing and financing needs. In addition, we have revolving credit facilities that are further discussed in Note 9. Our cash provided from operating activities is somewhat impacted by seasonality. Working capital needs are impacted by weekly sales, which are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday related sales patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. Operating Activities In 2006, our operations provided $6.1 billion of cash compared to $5.9 billion in the prior year. The increase primarily reflects our solid business results. Our operating cash flow in 2006 also reflects increased net tax payments over the prior year of $897 million, which included $420 million related to our repatriation of international cash in 2005 in connection with the AJCA, substantially offset by reductions in pension plan contributions over the prior year of $744 million. Investing Activities In 2006, we used $194 million for our investing activities. Capital spending of $2.1 billion and acquisitions of $522 million were mostly offset by net sales of short term investments of $2.0 billion and proceeds from our sale of PBG stock of $318 million. The increase in capital spending over the prior year primarily reflects increased investments at PI and in our North American Gatorade business, as well as increased support behind our ongoing BPT initiative. In 2005, we used $3.5 billion, primarily reflecting capital spending of $1.7 billion, acquisitions of $1.1 billion, primarily the $750 million acquisition of General Mills minority interest in Snack Ventures Europe, and net purchases of short term investments of $1.0 billion. These amounts were partially offset by the proceeds from our sale of PBG stock of $214 million. In the first quarter of 2007, we completed our acquisition of Naked Juice Company which was funded with existing domestic cash. This acquisition will be included in the first quarter of 2007 as an investing activity in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. We anticipate net capital spending of approximately $2.6 billion in 2007, which is expected to be within our net capital spending target of approximately 5% to 7% of net revenue in each of the next few years. Planned capital spending in 2007 includes increased investments at PI, particularly in the developing and emerging markets, and 58 Table of Contents additional investments in manufacturing capacity to support our North American Gatorade business as well as other non carbonated beverage businesses. New capital projects are evaluated on a case by case basis and must meet certain payback and internal rate of return targets. Financing Activities In 2006, we used $6.0 billion for our financing activities, primarily reflecting the return of operating cash flow to our shareholders through common share repurchases of $3.0 billion and dividend payments of $1.9 billion. Net repayments of short term borrowings of $2.3 billion were partially offset by stock option proceeds of $1.2 billion. In 2005, we used $1.9 billion for our financing activities, primarily reflecting share repurchases of $3.0 billion and dividend payments of $1.6 billion, partially offset by net proceeds from short term borrowings of $1.8 billion and stock option proceeds of $1.1 billion. On May 3, 2006, our Board of Directors authorized and publicly announced our new $8.5 billion repurchase program, which expires on June 30, 2009. Since inception of the new program, we have repurchased $1.1 billion of shares, leaving $7.4 billion of remaining authorization. We have historically repurchased significantly more shares each year than we have issued under our stock based compensation plans, with average net annual repurchases of 1.4% of outstanding shares for the last five years. We target an annual dividend payout of approximately 45% of prior years net income from continuing operations. Annually, we review our capital structure with our Board, including our dividend policy and share repurchase activity. Management Operating Cash Flow We focus on management operating cash flow as a key element in achieving maximum shareholder value, and it is the primary measure we use to monitor cash flow performance. However, it is not a measure provided by accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Since net capital spending is essential to our product innovation initiatives and maintaining our operational capabilities, we believe that it is a recurring and necessary use of cash. As such, we believe investors should also consider net capital spending when evaluating our cash from operating activities. The table below reconciles the net cash provided by operating activities as reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to our management operating cash flow. 2006 2005 2004 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,084 $ 5,852 $ 5,054 Capital spending (2,068 ) (1,736 ) (1,387 ) Sales of property, plant and equipment 49 88 38 Management operating cash flow $ 4,065 $ 4,204 $ 3,705 Management operating cash flow was used primarily to repurchase shares and pay dividends. We expect to continue to return approximately all of our management operating cash flow to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. 59 Table of Contents However, see Risk Factors in Item 1A. and Our Business Risks for certain factors that may impact our operating cash flows. Credit Ratings Our debt ratings of Aa3 from Moodys and A+ from Standard & Poors contribute to our ability to access global capital markets. We have maintained strong investment grade ratings for over a decade. Each rating is considered strong investment grade and is in the first quartile of their respective ranking systems. These ratings also reflect the impact of our anchor bottlers cash flows and debt. Credit Facilities and Long Term Contractual Commitments See Note 9 for a description of our credit facilities and long term contractual commitments. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements It is not our business practice to enter into off balance sheet arrangements, other than in the normal course of business, nor is it our policy to issue guarantees to our bottlers, noncontrolled affiliates or third parties. However, certain guarantees were necessary to facilitate the separation of our bottling and restaurant operations from us. At year end 2006, we believe it is remote that these guarantees would require any cash payment. We do not enter into off balance sheet transactions specifically structured to provide income or tax benefits or to avoid recognizing or disclosing assets or liabilities. See Note 9 for a description of our off balance sheet arrangements. 60 Table of Contents OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS Consolidated Statement of Income PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries Fiscal years ended December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004 (in millions except per share amounts) 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenue $ 35,137 $ 32,562 $ 29,261 Cost of sales 15,762 14,176 12,674 Selling, general and administrative expenses 12,774 12,314 11,031 Amortization of intangible assets 162 150 147 Restructuring and impairment charges sts 150 Operating Profit 6,439 5,922 5,259 Bottling equity income 616 557 380 Interest expense (239 ) (256 ) (167 ) Interest income 173 159 74 Income from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes 6,989 6,382 5,546 Provision for Income Taxes 1,347 2,304 1,372 Income from Continuing Operations 5,642 4,078 4,174 Tax Benefit from Discontinued Operations 38 Net Income $ 5,642 $ 4,078 $ 4,212 Net Income per Common Share Basic Continuing operations $ 3.42 $ 2.43 $ 2.45 Discontinued operations 0.02 Total $ 3.42 $ 2.43 $ 2.47 Net Income per Common Share Diluted Continuing operations $ 3.34 $ 2.39 $ 2.41 Discontinued operations 0.02 Total $ 3.34 $ 2.39 $ 2.44 * * Based on unrounded amounts. See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 61 Table of Contents Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries Fiscal years ended December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004 (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Operating Activities Net income $ 5,642 $ 4,078 $ 4,212 Depreciation and amortization 1,406 1,308 1,264 Stock based compensation expense 270 311 368 Excess tax benefits from share based payment arrangements (134 ) Restructuring and impairment charges 150 Cash payments for merger related costs and restructuring charges (22 ) (92 ) Tax benefit from discontinued operations (38 ) Pension and retiree medical plan contributions (131 ) (877 ) (534 ) Pension and retiree medical plan expenses 544 464 395 Bottling equity income, net of dividends (479 ) (411 ) (297 ) Deferred income taxes and other tax charges and credits (510 ) 440 (203 ) Other non cash charges and credits, net 32 145 166 Change in accounts and notes receivable (330 ) (272 ) (130 ) Change in inventories (186 ) (132 ) (100 ) Change in prepaid expenses and other current assets (37 ) (56 ) (31 ) Change in accounts payable and other current liabilities 223 188 216 Change in income taxes payable (295 ) 609 (268 ) Other, net 69 79 (24 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 6,084 5,852 5,054 Investing Activities Snack Ventures Europe (SVE) minority interest acquisition (750 ) Capital spending (2,068 ) (1,736 ) (1,387 ) Sales of property, plant and equipment 49 88 38 Investment in finance assets (25 ) Other acquisitions and investments in noncontrolled affiliates (522 ) (345 ) (64 ) Cash proceeds from sale of PBG stock 318 214 Divestitures 37 3 52 Short term investments, by original maturity More than three months purchases (29 ) (83 ) (44 ) More than three months maturities 25 84 38 Three months or less, net 2,021 (992 ) (963 ) Net Cash Used for Investing Activities (194 ) (3,517 ) (2,330 ) (Continued on following page) 62 Table of Contents Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (continued) PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries Fiscal years ended December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004 (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Financing Activities Proceeds from issuances of long term debt $ 51 $ 25 $ 504 Payments of long term debt (157 ) (177 ) (512 ) Short term borrowings, by original maturity More than three months proceeds 185 332 153 More than three months payments (358 ) (85 ) (160 ) Three months or less, net (2,168 ) 1,601 1,119 Cash dividends paid (1,854 ) (1,642 ) (1,329 ) Share repurchases common (3,000 ) (3,012 ) (3,028 ) Share repurchases preferred (10 ) (19 ) (27 ) Proceeds from exercises of stock options 1,194 1,099 965 Excess tax benefits from share based payment arrangements 134 Net Cash Used for Financing Activities (5,983 ) (1,878 ) (2,315 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 28 (21 ) 51 Net (Decrease)/Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents (65 ) 436 460 Cash and Cash Equivalents, Beginning of Year 1,716 1,280 820 Cash and Cash Equivalents, End of Year $ 1,651 $ 1,716 $ 1,280 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 63 Table of Contents Consolidated Balance Sheet PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 (in millions except per share amounts) 2006 2005 ASSETS Current Assets Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,651 $ 1,716 Short term investments 1,171 3,166 Accounts and notes receivable, net 3,725 3,261 Inventories 1,926 1,693 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 657 618 Total Current Assets 9,130 10,454 Property, Plant and Equipment, net 9,687 8,681 Amortizable Intangible Assets, net 637 530 Goodwill 4,594 4,088 Other nonamortizable intangible assets 1,212 1,086 Nonamortizable Intangible Assets 5,806 5,174 Investments in Noncontrolled Affiliates 3,690 3,485 Other Assets 980 3,403 Total Assets $ 29,930 $ 31,727 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Current Liabilities Short term obligations $ 274 $ 2,889 Accounts payable and other current liabilities 6,496 5,971 Income taxes payable 90 546 Total Current Liabilities 6,860 9,406 Long Term Debt Obligations 2,550 2,313 Other Liabilities 4,624 4,323 Deferred Income Taxes 528 1,434 Total Liabilities 14,562 17,476 Commitments and Contingencies Preferred Stock, no par value 41 41 Repurchased Preferred Stock (120 ) (110 ) Common Shareholders Equity Common stock, par value 12/3 per share (issued 1,782 shares) 30 30 Capital in excess of par value 584 614 Retained earnings 24,837 21,116 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (2,246 ) (1,053 ) 23,205 20,707 Less: repurchased common stock, at cost (144 and 126 shares, respectively) (7,758 ) (6,387 ) Total Common Shareholders Equity 15,447 14,320 Total Liabilities and Shareholders Equity $ 29,930 $ 31,727 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 64 Table of Contents Consolidated Statement of Common Shareholders Equity PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries Fiscal years ended December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount Common Stock 1,782 $ 30 1,782 $ 30 1,782 $ 30 Capital in Excess of Par Value Balance, beginning of year 614 618 548 Stock based compensation expense 270 311 368 Stock option exercises(a) (300 ) (315 ) (298 ) Balance, end of year 584 614 618 Retained Earnings Balance, beginning of year 21,116 18,730 15,961 Net income 5,642 4,078 4,212 Cash dividends declared common (1,912 ) (1,684 ) (1,438 ) Cash dividends declared preferred (1 ) (3 ) (3 ) Cash dividends declared RSUs (8 ) (5 ) (2 ) Balance, end of year 24,837 21,116 18,730 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Balance, beginning of year (1,053 ) (886 ) (1,267 ) Currency translation adjustment 465 (251 ) 401 Cash flow hedges, net of tax: Net derivative (losses)/gains (18 ) 54 (16 ) Reclassification of (gains)/losses to net income (5 ) (8 ) 9 Unamortized pension and retiree medical, net of tax (1,782 ) Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax 138 16 (19 ) Unrealized gain on securities, net of tax 9 24 6 Other (2 ) Balance, end of year (2,246 ) (1,053 ) (886 ) Repurchased Common Stock Balance, beginning of year (126 ) (6,387 ) (103 ) (4,920 ) (77 ) (3,376 ) Share repurchases (49 ) (3,000 ) (54 ) (2,995 ) (58 ) (2,994 ) Stock option exercises 31 1,619 31 1,523 32 1,434 Other 10 5 16 Balance, end of year (144 ) (7,758 ) (126 ) (6,387 ) (103 ) (4,920 ) Total Common Shareholders Equity $ 15,447 $ 14,320 $ 13,572 2006 2005 2004 Comprehensive Income Net income $ 5,642 $ 4,078 $ 4,212 Currency translation adjustment 465 (251 ) 401 Cash flow hedges, net of tax (23 ) 46 (7 ) Minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax 5 16 (19 ) Unrealized gain on securities, net of tax 9 24 6 Other (2 ) Total Comprehensive Income $ 6,098 $ 3,911 $ 4,593 (a) Includes total tax benefits of $130 million in 2006, $125 million in 2005 and $183 million in 2004. See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 65 Table of Contents Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Our Divisions Basis of Presentation Our financial statements include the consolidated accounts of PepsiCo, Inc. and the affiliates that we control. In addition, we include our share of the results of certain other affiliates based on our economic ownership interest. We do not control these other affiliates, as our ownership in these other affiliates is generally less than 50%. Our share of the net income of noncontrolled bottling affiliates is reported in our income statement as bottling equity income. Bottling equity income also includes any changes in our ownership interests of these affiliates. Bottling equity income includes $186 million and $126 million of pre tax gains on our sales of PBG stock in 2006 and 2005, respectively. See Note 8 for additional information on our significant noncontrolled bottling affiliates. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. In 2005, we had an additional week of results (53rd week). Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday of each December, resulting in an additional week of results every five or six years. In connection with our ongoing BPT initiative, we aligned certain accounting policies across our divisions in 2005. We conformed our methodology for calculating our bad debt reserves and modified our policy for recognizing revenue for products shipped to customers by third party carriers. Additionally, we conformed our method of accounting for certain costs, primarily warehouse and freight. These changes reduced our net revenue by $36 million and our operating profit by $60 million in 2005. Raw materials, direct labor and plant overhead, as well as purchasing and receiving costs, costs directly related to production planning, inspection costs and raw material handling facilities, are included in cost of sales. The costs of moving, storing and delivering finished product are included in selling, general and administrative expenses. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Estimates are used in determining, among other items, sales incentives accruals, tax reserves, stock based compensation, pension and retiree medical accruals, useful lives for intangible assets, and future cash flows associated with impairment testing for perpetual brands, goodwill and other long lived assets. Actual results could differ from these estimates. See Our Divisions below and for additional unaudited information on items affecting the comparability of our consolidated results, see Items Affecting Comparability in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Tabular dollars are in millions, except per share amounts. All per share amounts reflect common per share amounts, assume dilution unless noted, and are based on unrounded 66 Table of Contents amounts. Certain reclassifications were made to prior years amounts to conform to the 2006 presentation. Our Divisions We manufacture or use contract manufacturers, market and sell a variety of salty, sweet and grain based snacks, carbonated and non carbonated beverages, and foods through our North American and international business divisions. Our North American divisions include the United States and Canada. The accounting policies for the divisions are the same as those described in Note 2, except for certain allocation methodologies for stock based compensation expense and pension and retiree medical expenses, as described in the unaudited information in Our Critical Accounting Policies. Additionally, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005, we began centrally managing commodity derivatives on behalf of our divisions. Certain of the commodity derivatives, primarily those related to the purchase of energy for use by our divisions, do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. These derivatives hedge underlying commodity price risk and were not entered into for speculative purposes. Such derivatives are marked to market with the resulting gains and losses recognized in corporate unallocated expenses. These gains and losses are subsequently reflected in division results when the divisions take delivery of the underlying commodity. Therefore, division results reflect the contract purchase price of the energy or other commodities. Division results are based on how our President and Chief Executive Officer assesses the performance of and reallocates resources to our divisions. Division results exclude certain Corporate initiated restructuring and impairment charges. For additional unaudited information on our divisions, see Our Operations in Managements Discussion and Analysis. 67 Table of Contents 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenue Operating Profit FLNA $ 10,844 $ 10,322 $ 9,560 $ 2,615 $ 2,529 $ 2,389 PBNA 9,565 9,146 8,313 2,055 2,037 1,911 PI 12,959 11,376 9,862 1,948 1,607 1,323 QFNA 1,769 1,718 1,526 554 537 475 Total division 35,137 32,562 29,261 7,172 6,710 6,098 Corporate (733 ) (788 ) (689 ) 35,137 32,562 29,261 6,439 5,922 5,409 Restructuring and impairment charges (150 ) Total $ 35,137 $ 32,562 $ 29,261 $ 6,439 $ 5,922 $ 5,259 Corporate Corporate includes costs of our corporate headquarters, centrally managed initiatives, such as our BPT initiative in North America, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and certain commodity derivative gains and losses, as well as profit in inventory elimination adjustments for our noncontrolled bottling affiliates and certain other items. Restructuring and Impairment Charges See Note 3. 68 Table of Contents Other Division Information 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 Total Assets Capital Spending FLNA $ 5,969 $ 5,948 $ 5,476 $ 499 $ 512 $ 469 PBNA 6,567 6,316 6,048 492 320 265 PI 11,274 9,983 8,921 835 667 537 QFNA 1,003 989 978 31 31 33 Total division 24,813 23,236 21,423 1,857 1,530 1,304 Corporate (a) 1,739 5,331 3,569 211 206 83 Investments in bottling affiliates 3,378 3,160 2,995 $ 29,930 $ 31,727 $ 27,987 $ 2,068 $ 1,736 $ 1,387 (a) Corporate assets consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, short term investments, and property, plant and equipment. 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 Amortization of Intangible Assets Depreciation and Other Amortization FLNA $ 9 $ 3 $ 3 $ 432 $ 419 $ 420 PBNA 77 76 75 282 264 258 PI 76 71 68 478 420 382 QFNA 1 33 34 36 Total division 162 150 147 1,225 1,137 1,096 Corporate 19 21 21 $ 162 $ 150 $ 147 $ 1,244 $ 1,158 $ 1,117 69 Table of Contents 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 Net Revenue(a) Long Lived Assets(b) U.S. $ 20,788 $ 19,937 $ 18,329 $ 11,515 $ 10,723 $ 10,212 Mexico 3,228 3,095 2,724 996 902 878 United Kingdom 1,839 1,821 1,692 1,995 1,715 1,896 Canada 1,702 1,509 1,309 589 582 548 All other countries 7,580 6,200 5,207 4,725 3,948 3,339 $ 35,137 $ 32,562 $ 29,261 $ 19,820 $ 17,870 $ 16,873 (a) Represents net revenue from businesses operating in these countries. (b) Long lived assets represent property, plant and equipment, nonamortizable intangible assets, amortizable intangible assets, and investments in noncontrolled affiliates. These assets are reported in the country where they are primarily used. Note 2 Our Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue upon shipment or delivery to our customers based on written sales terms that do not allow for a right of return. However, our policy for DSD and chilled products is to remove and replace damaged and out of date products from store shelves to ensure that our consumers receive the product quality and freshness that they expect. Similarly, our policy for warehouse distributed products is to replace damaged and out of date products. Based on our historical experience with this practice, we have reserved for anticipated damaged and out of date products. For additional unaudited information on our revenue recognition and related policies, including our policy on bad debts, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. We are exposed to concentration of credit risk by our customers, Wal Mart and PBG. In 2006, Wal Mart represented approximately 9% of our total net revenue, including concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to Wal Mart; and PBG represented approximately 10%. We have not experienced credit issues with these customers. 70 Table of Contents Sales Incentives and Other Marketplace Spending We offer sales incentives and discounts through various programs to our customers and consumers. Sales incentives and discounts are accounted for as a reduction of revenue and totaled $10.1 billion in 2006, $8.9 billion in 2005 and $7.8 billion in 2004. While most of these incentive arrangements have terms of no more than one year, certain arrangements, such as fountain pouring rights, extend beyond one year. Costs incurred to obtain these arrangements are recognized over no longer than the contract period and the remaining balances of $297 million at December 30, 2006 and $321 million at December 31, 2005 are included in current assets and other assets on our balance sheet. For additional unaudited information on our sales incentives, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Other marketplace spending includes the costs of advertising and other marketing activities and is reported as selling, general and administrative expenses. Advertising expenses were $1.7 billion in 2006, $1.8 billion in 2005 and $1.7 billion in 2004. Deferred advertising costs are not expensed until the year first used and consist of: media and personal service prepayments, promotional materials in inventory, and production costs of future media advertising. Deferred advertising costs of $171 million and $202 million at year end 2006 and 2005, respectively, are classified as prepaid expenses on our balance sheet. Distribution Costs Distribution costs, including the costs of shipping and handling activities, are reported as selling, general and administrative expenses. Shipping and handling expenses were $4.6 billion in 2006, $4.1 billion in 2005 and $3.9 billion in 2004. Cash Equivalents Cash equivalents are investments with original maturities of three months or less which we do not intend to rollover beyond three months. Software Costs We capitalize certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are included in property, plant and equipment on our balance sheet and amortized on a straight line basis when placed into service over the estimated useful lives of the software, which approximate five to seven years. Net capitalized software and development costs were $537 million at December 30, 2006 and $327 million at December 31, 2005. 71 Table of Contents Commitments and Contingencies We are subject to various claims and contingencies related to lawsuits, taxes and environmental matters, as well as commitments under contractual and other commercial obligations. We recognize liabilities for contingencies and commitments when a loss is probable and estimable. For additional information on our commitments, see Note 9. Research and Development We engage in a variety of research and development activities. These activities principally involve the development of new products, improvement in the quality of existing products, improvement and modernization of production processes, and the development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines. Research and development costs were $344 million in 2006 and $340 million in 2005 and are reported as selling, general and administrative expenses. Other Significant Accounting Policies Our other significant accounting policies are disclosed as follows: Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets Note 4 and, for additional unaudited information on brands and goodwill, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Income Taxes Note 5 and, for additional unaudited information, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Stock Based Compensation Expense Note 6 and, for additional unaudited information, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans Note 7 and, for additional unaudited information, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Risk Management Note 10 and, for additional unaudited information, see Our Business Risks in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Recent Accounting Pronouncements As further discussed in Note 6, we adopted SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006. As further discussed in Note 7, we adopted SFAS 158 on December 30, 2006. In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB 108 to address diversity in practice in quantifying financial statement misstatements. SAB 108 requires that we quantify misstatements based on their impact on each of our financial statements and related disclosures. On December 30, 2006, we adopted SAB 108. Our adoption of SAB 108 did not impact our financial statements. 72 Table of Contents In July 2006, the FASB issued FIN 48 which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in tax positions. FIN 48 requires that we recognize in our financial statements, the impact of a tax position, if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. The provisions of FIN 48 are effective as of the beginning of our 2007 fiscal year, with the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings. We do not expect our adoption of FIN 48 to materially impact our financial statements. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS 157 which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The provisions of SFAS 157 are effective as of the beginning of our 2008 fiscal year. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS 157 on our financial statements. Note 3 Restructuring and Impairment Charges 2006 Restructuring and Impairment Charges In 2006, we incurred a charge of $67 million ($43 million after tax or $0.03 per share) in conjunction with consolidating the manufacturing network at FLNA by closing two plants in the U.S., and rationalizing other assets, to increase manufacturing productivity and supply chain efficiencies. The charge was comprised of $43 million of asset impairments, $14 million of severance and other employee costs and $10 million of other costs. Employee related costs primarily reflect the termination costs for approximately 380 employees. We expect all of the cash payments related to this charge to be paid by the end of 2007. 2005 Restructuring Charges In 2005, we incurred a charge of $83 million ($55 million after tax or $0.03 per share) in conjunction with actions taken to reduce costs in our operations, principally through headcount reductions. Of this charge, $34 million related to FLNA, $21 million to PBNA, $16 million to PI and $12 million to Corporate. Most of this charge related to the termination of approximately 700 employees. As of December 30, 2006, all terminations had occurred and substantially no accrual remains. 2004 Restructuring and Impairment Charges In 2004, we incurred a charge of $150 million ($96 million after tax or $0.06 per share) in conjunction with the consolidation of FLNAs manufacturing network as part of its ongoing productivity program. Of this charge, $93 million related to asset impairments, primarily reflecting the closure of four U.S. plants. Production from these plants was redeployed to other FLNA facilities in the U.S. The remaining $57 million included employee related costs of $29 million, contract termination costs of $8 million and other exit costs of $20 million. Employee related costs primarily reflect the termination costs for approximately 700 employees. As of December 30, 2006, all terminations had occurred and substantially no accrual remains. 73 Table of Contents Note 4 Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets AverageUseful Life 2006 2005 2004 Property, plant and equipment, net Land and improvements 10 30 yrs. $ 756 $ 685 Buildings and improvements 20 44 4,095 3,736 Machinery and equipment, including fleet and software 5 15 12,768 11,658 Construction in progress 1,439 1,066 19,058 17,145 Accumulated depreciation (9,371 ) (8,464 ) $ 9,687 $ 8,681 Depreciation expense $ 1,182 $ 1,103 $ 1,062 Amortizable intangible assets, net Brands 5 40 $ 1,288 $ 1,054 Other identifiable intangibles 3 15 290 257 1,578 1,311 Accumulated amortization (941 ) (781 ) $ 637 $ 530 Amortization expense $ 162 $ 150 $ 147 Depreciation and amortization are recognized on a straight line basis over an assets estimated useful life. Land is not depreciated and construction in progress is not depreciated until ready for service. Amortization of intangible assets for each of the next five years, based on average 2006 foreign exchange rates, is expected to be $49 million in 2007, $49 million in 2008, $47 million in 2009, $46 million in 2010 and $44 million in 2011. Depreciable and amortizable assets are only evaluated for impairment upon a significant change in the operating or macroeconomic environment. In these circumstances, if an evaluation of the undiscounted cash flows indicates impairment, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value, which is based on discounted future cash flows. Useful lives are periodically evaluated to determine whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate the need for revision. For additional unaudited information on our amortizable brand policies, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Nonamortizable Intangible Assets Perpetual brands and goodwill are assessed for impairment at least annually. If the carrying amount of a perpetual brand exceeds its fair value, as determined by its discounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Goodwill is evaluated using a two step impairment test at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit can be a division or business within a division. The first step compares the book value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, with its fair value, as determined by its discounted cash flows. If the book value of a reporting unit exceeds its 74 Table of Contents fair value, we complete the second step to determine the amount of goodwill impairment loss that we should record. In the second step, we determine an implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities other than goodwill (including any unrecognized intangible assets). The amount of impairment loss is equal to the excess of the book value of the goodwill over the implied fair value of that goodwill. No impairment charges resulted from the required impairment evaluations. The change in the book value of nonamortizable intangible assets is as follows: Balance,Beginning2005 Acquisitions Translationand Other Balance,End of2005 Acquisitions Translationand Other Balance,End of2006 Frito Lay NorthAmerica Goodwill $ 138 $ $ 7 $ 145 $ 139 $ $ 284 PepsiCo BeveragesNorth America Goodwill 2,161 3 2,164 39 2,203 Brands 59 59 59 2,220 3 2,223 39 2,262 PepsiCoInternational Goodwill 1,435 278 (109 ) 1,604 183 145 1,932 Brands 869 263 (106 ) 1,026 127 1,153 2,304 541 (215 ) 2,630 183 272 3,085 Quaker FoodsNorth America Goodwill 175 175 175 Corporate Pension intangible 5 (4 ) 1 (1 ) Total goodwill 3,909 278 (99 ) 4,088 361 145 4,594 Total brands 928 263 (106 ) 1,085 127 1,212 Total pension intangible 5 (4 ) 1 (1 ) $ 4,842 $ 541 $ (209 ) $ 5,174 $ 361 $ 271 $ 5,806 75 Table of Contents Note 5 Income Taxes 2006 2005 2004 Income before income taxes continuing operations U.S. $ 3,844 $ 3,175 $ 2,946 Foreign 3,145 3,207 2,600 $ 6,989 $ 6,382 $ 5,546 Provision for income taxes continuing operations Current: U.S. Federal $ 776 $ 1,638 $ 1,030 Foreign 569 426 256 State 56 118 69 1,401 2,182 1,355 Deferred: U.S. Federal (31 ) 137 11 Foreign (16 ) (26 ) 5 State (7 ) 11 1 (54 ) 122 17 $ 1,347 $ 2,304 $ 1,372 Tax rate reconciliation continuing operations U.S. Federal statutory tax rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % State income tax, net of U.S. Federal tax benefit 0.5 1.4 0.8 Taxes on AJCA repatriation 7.0 Lower taxes on foreign results (6.5 ) (6.5 ) (5.4 ) Settlement of prior years audit (4.8 ) 2006 Tax Adjustments (8.6 ) Other, net (1.1 ) (0.8 ) (0.9 ) Annual tax rate 19.3 % 36.1 % 24.7 % Deferred tax liabilities Investments in noncontrolled affiliates $ 1,103 $ 993 Property, plant and equipment 784 772 Pension benefits 863 Intangible assets other than nondeductible goodwill 169 135 Zero coupon notes 27 35 Other 221 169 Gross deferred tax liabilities 2,304 2,967 Deferred tax assets Net carryforwards 667 608 Stock based compensation 443 426 Retiree medical benefits 541 400 Other employee related benefits 342 342 Pension benefits 38 Other 592 520 Gross deferred tax assets 2,623 2,296 Valuation allowances (624 ) (532 ) Deferred tax assets, net 1,999 1,764 Net deferred tax liabilities $ 305 $ 1,203 76 Table of Contents 2006 2005 2004 Deferred taxes included within: Assets: Prepaid expenses and other current assets $ 223 $ 231 Liabilities: Deferred income taxes $ 528 $ 1,434 Analysis of valuation allowances Balance, beginning of year $ 532 $ 564 $ 438 Provision/(benefit) 71 (28 ) 118 Other additions/(deductions) 21 (4 ) 8 Balance, end of year $ 624 $ 532 $ 564 For additional unaudited information on our income tax policies, including our reserves for income taxes, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Carryforwards, Credits and Allowances Operating loss carryforwards totaling $6.1 billion at year end 2006 are being carried forward in a number of foreign and state jurisdictions where we are permitted to use tax operating losses from prior periods to reduce future taxable income. These operating losses will expire as follows: $0.2 billion in 2007, $5.0 billion between 2008 and 2026 and $0.9 billion may be carried forward indefinitely. In addition, certain tax credits generated in prior periods of approximately $33.9 million are available to reduce certain foreign tax liabilities through 2011. We establish valuation allowances for our deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Undistributed International Earnings The AJCA created a one time incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed international earnings by providing an 85% dividends received deduction. In 2005, we repatriated approximately $7.5 billion in earnings previously considered indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. and recorded income tax expense of $460 million related to this repatriation. Other than the earnings repatriated, we intend to continue to reinvest earnings outside the U.S. for the foreseeable future and, therefore, have not recognized any U.S. tax expense on these earnings. At December 30, 2006, we had approximately $10.8 billion of undistributed international earnings. Reserves A number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for which we have established a reserve, is audited and finally resolved. The number of years with open tax audits varies depending on the tax jurisdiction. In 2006, we recognized non cash tax benefits of $602 million, substantially all of which related to the IRSs examination of our consolidated 77 Table of Contents income tax returns for the years 1998 through 2002. The IRS issued a Revenue Agents Report (RAR), and we are in agreement with their conclusion, except for one matter which we continue to dispute. The agreed adjustments relate to transfer pricing and various other transactions, including certain acquisitions, the public offering of PBG, as well as the restructuring of our international snack foods operations during that audit period. During 2004, we recognized $266 million of tax benefits related to the favorable resolution of certain previously open tax issues. In addition, in 2004, we recognized a tax benefit of $38 million upon agreement with the IRS on a previously open issue related to our discontinued restaurant operations. The IRS has initiated their audits of our tax returns for the years 2003 through 2005. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter, we believe that our reserves reflect the probable outcome of known tax contingencies. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest, in light of changing facts and circumstances. Settlement of any particular issue would usually require the use of cash. Favorable resolution would be recognized as a reduction to our annual tax rate in the year of resolution. Our tax reserves, covering all federal, state and foreign jurisdictions, are presented on our balance sheet within other liabilities (see Note 14), except for any amounts relating to items we expect to pay in the coming year which are included in current income taxes payable. For further unaudited information on the impact of the resolution of open tax issues, see Other Consolidated Results. As further discussed in Note 2, we will adopt FIN 48 as of the beginning of our 2007 fiscal year. Note 6 Stock Based Compensation Our stock based compensation program is a broad based program designed to attract and retain employees while also aligning employees interests with the interests of our shareholders. A majority of our employees participate in our stock based compensation programs. In addition, members of our Board of Directors participate in our stock based compensation program in connection with their service on our Board. Stock options and RSUs are granted to employees under the shareholder approved 2003 Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), our only active stock based plan. Stock based compensation expense was $270 million in 2006, $311 million in 2005 and $368 million in 2004. Related income tax benefits recognized in earnings were $80 million in 2006, $87 million in 2005 and $103 million in 2004. Stock based compensation cost capitalized in connection with our BPT initiative was $3 million in 2006, $4 million in 2005 and none in 2004. At year end 2006, 36 million shares were available for future stock based compensation grants. For additional unaudited information on our stock based compensation program, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Method of Accounting and Our Assumptions We account for our employee stock options, which include grants under our executive program and broad based SharePower program, under the fair value method of 78 Table of Contents accounting using a Black Scholes valuation model to measure stock option expense at the date of grant. All stock option grants have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant and generally have a 10 year term. The fair value of stock option grants is amortized to expense over the vesting period, generally three years. Executives who are awarded long term incentives based on their performance are offered the choice of stock options or RSUs. Executives who elect RSUs receive one RSU for every four stock options that would have otherwise been granted. Senior officers do not have a choice and are granted 50% stock options and 50% RSUs. RSU expense is based on the fair value of PepsiCo stock on the date of grant and is amortized over the vesting period, generally three years. Each RSU is settled in a share of our stock after the vesting period. Vesting of RSU awards for senior officers is contingent upon the achievement of pre established performance targets. There have been no reductions to the exercise price of previously issued awards, and any repricing of awards would require approval of our shareholders. On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R under the modified prospective method. Since we had previously accounted for our stock based compensation plans under the fair value provisions of SFAS 123, our adoption did not significantly impact our financial position or our results of operations. Under SFAS 123R, actual tax benefits recognized in excess of tax benefits previously established upon grant are reported as a financing cash inflow. Prior to adoption, such excess tax benefits were reported as an operating cash inflow. Our weighted average Black Scholes fair value assumptions are as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Expected life 6 yrs. 6 yrs. 6 yrs. Risk free interest rate 4.5% 3.8% 3.3% Expected volatility 18% 23% 26% Expected dividend yield 1.9% 1.8% 1.8% A summary of our stock based compensation activity for the year ended December 30, 2006 is presented below: Our Stock Option Activity Options(a) AveragePrice(b) AverageLife(years)(c) AggregateIntrinsicValue(d) Outstanding at January 1, 2006 150,149 $ 42.03 Granted 12,519 57.72 Exercised (31,056 ) 38.61 Forfeited/expired (3,863 ) 49.06 Outstanding at December 30, 2006 127,749 $ 44.24 5.46 $ 2,339,562 Exercisable at December 30, 2006 91,381 $ 41.02 4.42 $ 1,967,843 (a) Options are in thousands and include options previously granted under Quaker plans. No additional options or shares may be granted under the Quaker plans. (b) Weighted average exercise price. (c) Weighted average contractual life remaining. (d) In thousands. 79 Table of Contents Our RSU Activity RSUs(a) AverageIntrinsicValue(b) AverageLife(years)(c) AggregateIntrinsicValue(d) Outstanding at January 1, 2006 5,669 $ 50.70 Granted 2,992 58.22 Converted (183 ) 50.00 Forfeited/expired (593 ) 53.17 Outstanding at December 30, 2006 7,885 $ 53.38 1.38 $ 493,201 (a) RSUs are in thousands. (b) Weighted average intrinsic value at grant date. (c) Weighted average contractual life remaining. (d) In thousands. Other Stock Based Compensation Data 2006 2005 2004 Stock Options Weighted average fair value of options granted $ 12.81 $ 13.45 $ 12.04 Total intrinsic value of options exercised(a) $ 686,242 $ 632,603 $ 667,001 RSUs Total number of RSUs granted(a) 2,992 3,097 3,077 Weighted average intrinsic value of RSUs granted $ 58.22 $ 53.83 $ 47.28 Total intrinsic value of RSUs converted(a) $ 10,934 $ 4,974 $ 914 (a) In thousands. At December 30, 2006, there was $301 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share based compensation grants. This unrecognized compensation is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.5 years. Note 7 Pension, Retiree Medical and Savings Plans Our pension plans cover full time employees in the U.S. and certain international employees. Benefits are determined based on either years of service or a combination of years of service and earnings. U.S. and Canada retirees are also eligible for medical and life insurance benefits (retiree medical) if they meet age and service requirements. Generally, our share of retiree medical costs is capped at specified dollar amounts, which vary based upon years of service, with retirees contributing the remainder of the costs. We use a September 30 measurement date and all plan assets and liabilities are generally reported as of that date. 80 Table of Contents Other gains and losses resulting from actual experience differing from our assumptions and from changes in our assumptions are also determined at each measurement date. If this net accumulated gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of plan assets or liabilities, a portion of the net gain or loss is included in expense for the following year. The cost or benefit of plan changes that increase or decrease benefits for prior employee service (prior service cost/(credit)) is included in earnings on a straight line basis over the average remaining service period of those expected to benefit, which is approximately 11 years for pension expense and approximately 13 years for retiree medical. On December 30, 2006, we adopted SFAS 158 which requires that we recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of our Plans as an asset or liability on our December 30, 2006 balance sheet. Subsequent changes in the funded status will be recognized through comprehensive income in the year in which they occur. SFAS 158 also requires that, beginning in 2008, our assumptions used to measure our annual pension and retiree medical expenses be determined as of the balance sheet date, and all plan assets and liabilities be reported as of that date. In accordance with SFAS 158, prior year amounts have not been adjusted. The following illustrates the incremental effect of applying SFAS 158 on individual line items on our balance sheet as of December 30, 2006: BeforeApplicationof SFAS 158 Adjustments AfterApplicationof SFAS 158 Other nonamortizable intangible assets $ 1,229 $ (17 ) $ 1,212 Other assets $ 2,979 $ (1,999 ) $ 980 Total assets $ 31,946 $ (2,016 ) $ 29,930 Accounts payable and other current liabilities $ 6,475 $ 21 $ 6,496 Other liabilities $ 4,127 $ 497 $ 4,624 Deferred income taxes $ 1,419 $ (891 ) $ 528 Total liabilities $ 14,935 $ (373 ) $ 14,562 Accumulated other comprehensive loss $ 603 $ 1,643 $ 2,246 Total common shareholders equity $ 17,090 $ (1,643 ) $ 15,447 Selected financial information for our pension and retiree medical plans is as follows: Pension Retiree Medical 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 U.S. International Change in projected benefit liability Liability at beginning of year $ 5,771 $ 4,968 $ 1,263 $ 952 $ 1,312 $ 1,319 Service cost 245 213 52 32 46 40 Interest cost 319 296 68 55 72 78 Plan amendments 11 8 3 (8 ) Participant contributions 12 10 Experience (gain)/loss (163 ) 517 20 203 (34 ) (45 ) Benefit payments (233 ) (241 ) (38 ) (28 ) (75 ) (74 ) Settlement/curtailment loss (7 ) (6 ) Special termination benefits 4 21 1 2 Foreign currency adjustment 126 (68 ) Other (3 ) 6 104 48 Liability at end of year $ 5,947 $ 5,771 $ 1,511 $ 1,263 $ 1,370 $ 1,312 81 Table of Contents Pension Retiree Medical 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 U.S. International Change in fair value of plan assets Fair value at beginning of year $ 5,086 $ 4,152 $ 1,099 $ 838 $ $ Actual return on plan assets 513 477 112 142 Employer contributions/funding 19 699 30 104 75 74 Participant contributions 12 10 Benefit payments (233 ) (241 ) (38 ) (28 ) (75 ) (74 ) Settlement/curtailment loss (7 ) Foreign currency adjustment 116 (61 ) Other (1 ) (1 ) 94 Fair value at end of year $ 5,378 $ 5,086 $ 1,330 $ 1,099 $ $ Reconciliation of funded status Funded status $ (569 ) $ (685 ) $ (181 ) $ (164 ) $ (1,370 ) $ (1,312 ) Adjustment for fourth quarter contributions 6 5 13 4 16 19 Unrecognized prior service cost/(credit) 5 17 (113 ) Unrecognized experience loss 2,288 474 402 Net amount recognized $ (563 ) $ 1,613 $ (168 ) $ 331 $ (1,354 ) $ (1,004 ) Amounts recognized Other assets $ 185 $ 2,068 $ 6 $ 367 $ $ Intangible assets 1 Other current liabilities (19 ) (2 ) (84 ) Other liabilities (729 ) (479 ) (172 ) (41 ) (1,270 ) (1,004 ) Minimum pension liability 24 4 Net amount recognized $ (563 ) $ 1,613 $ (168 ) $ 331 $ (1,354 ) $ (1,004 ) Amounts included in accumulated othercomprehensive loss (pre tax) Net loss $ 1,836 $ $ 475 $ $ 364 $ Prior service cost/(credit) 13 24 (101 ) Minimum pension liability 24 4 Total $ 1,849 $ 24 $ 499 $ 4 $ 263 $ Components of the (decrease)/increase in net loss Change in discount rate $ (123 ) $ 365 $ 2 $ 194 $ (30 ) $ 61 Employee related assumption changes (45 ) 57 6 2 Liability related experience different from assumptions 5 95 6 7 (4 ) (54 ) Actual asset return different from expected return (122 ) (133 ) (30 ) (73 ) Amortization of losses (164 ) (106 ) (29 ) (15 ) (21 ) (26 ) Other, including foreign currency adjustments and 2003 Medicare Act (3 ) (3 ) 46 (22 ) 17 (52 ) Total $ (452 ) $ (275 ) $ 1 $ 93 $ (38 ) $ (71 ) Liability at end of year for service to date $ 4,998 $ 4,783 $ 1,239 $ 1,047 82 Table of Contents Components of benefit expense are as follows: Pension Retiree Medical 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 U.S. International Components of benefit expense Service cost $ 245 $ 213 $ 193 $ 52 $ 32 $ 27 $ 46 $ 40 $ 38 Interest cost 319 296 271 68 55 47 72 78 72 Expected return on plan assets (391 ) (344 ) (325 ) (81 ) (69 ) (65 ) Amortization of prior service cost/(credit) 3 3 6 2 1 1 (13 ) (11 ) (8 ) Amortization of net loss 164 106 81 29 15 9 21 26 19 340 274 226 70 34 19 126 133 121 Settlement/curtailment loss 3 4 1 Special termination benefits 4 21 19 1 1 2 4 Total $ 347 $ 295 $ 249 $ 70 $ 34 $ 21 $ 127 $ 135 $ 125 The estimated amounts to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into benefit expense in 2007 for our pension and retiree medical plans are as follows: Pension Retiree Medical U.S. International Net loss $ 136 $ 29 $ 18 Prior service cost/(credit) 5 3 (13 ) Total $ 141 $ 32 $ 5 The following table provides the weighted average assumptions used to determine projected benefit liability and benefit expense for our pension and retiree medical plans: Pension Retiree Medical 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 2006 2005 2004 U.S. International Weighted average assumptions Liability discount rate 5.8 % 5.7 % 6.1 % 5.2 % 5.1 % 6.1 % 5.8 % 5.7 % 6.1 % Expense discount rate 5.7 % 6.1 % 6.1 % 5.1 % 6.1 % 6.1 % 5.7 % 6.1 % 6.1 % Expected return on plan assets 7.8 % 7.8 % 7.8 % 7.3 % 8.0 % 8.0 % Rate of salary increases 4.5 % 4.4 % 4.5 % 3.9 % 4.1 % 3.9 % The following table provides selected information about plans with liability for service to date and total benefit liability in excess of plan assets: Pension Retiree Medical 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 U.S. International Selected information for plans with liability for service to date in excess of plan assets Liability for service to date $ (387 ) $ (374 ) $ (286 ) $ (65 ) Fair value of plan assets $ 1 $ 8 $ 237 $ 33 Selected information for plans with benefit liability in excess of plan assets Benefit liability $ (754 ) $ (2,690 ) $ (1,387 ) $ (1,158 ) $ (1,370 ) $ (1,312 ) Fair value of plan assets $ 1 $ 1,758 $ 1,200 $ 985 83 Table of Contents Of the total projected pension benefit liability at year end 2006, $701 million relates to plans that we do not fund because the funding of such plans does not receive favorable tax treatment. Future Benefit Payments and Funding Our estimated future benefit payments are as follows: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 16 Pension $ 265 $ 285 $ 310 $ 345 $ 375 $ 2,490 Retiree medical* $ 90 $ 95 $ 100 $ 100 $ 105 $ 595 * Expected future benefit payments for our retiree medical plans do not reflect any estimated subsidies expected to be received under the Medicare Act. Subsidies are expected to be approximately $5 million for each of the years from 2007 through 2011 and approximately $40 million for 2012 through 2016. These future benefits to beneficiaries include payments from both funded and unfunded pension plans. In 2007, we expect to make pension contributions of up to $150 million with up to $75 million expected to be discretionary. Our cash payments for retiree medical are estimated to be approximately $85 million in 2007. Pension Assets The expected return on pension plan assets is based on our historical experience, our pension plan investment strategy and our expectations for long term rates of return. We use a market related value method that recognizes each years asset gain or loss over a five year period. Therefore, it takes five years for the gain or loss from any one year to be fully included in the value of pension plan assets that is used to calculate the expected return. Our pension plan investment strategy is reviewed annually and is established based upon plan liabilities, an evaluation of market conditions, tolerance for risk, and cash requirements for benefit payments. Our investment objective is to ensure that funds are available to meet the plans benefit obligations when they are due. Our investment strategy is to prudently invest plan assets in high quality and diversified equity and debt securities to achieve our long term return expectation. Our investment policy also permits the use of derivative instruments to enhance the overall return of the portfolio. We use a third party advisor to assist us in determining our investment allocation and modeling our long term rate of return assumptions. Our expected long term rate of return on U.S. plan assets is 7.8%, reflecting estimated long term rates of return of 9.3% from equity securities and 5.8% from fixed income securities. Our target allocation and actual pension plan asset allocations for the plan years 2006 and 2005 are as follows: 84 Table of Contents TargetAllocation ActualAllocation Asset Category 2006 2005 Equity securities 60 % 61 % 60 % Debt securities 40 % 39 % 39 % Other, primarily cash 1 % Total 100 % 100 % 100 % Pension assets include 5.5 million shares of PepsiCo common stock with a market value of $358 million in 2006, and 5.5 million shares with a market value of $311 million in 2005. Our investment policy limits the investment in PepsiCo stock at the time of investment to 10% of the fair value of plan assets. Retiree Medical Cost Trend Rates An average increase of 9% in the cost of covered retiree medical benefits is assumed for 2007. This average increase is then projected to decline gradually to 5% in 2011 and thereafter. These assumed health care cost trend rates have an impact on the retiree medical plan expense and liability. However, the cap on our share of retiree medical costs limits the impact. A 1 percentage point change in the assumed health care trend rate would have the following effects: 1% Increase 1% Decrease 2006 service and interest cost components $ 4 $ (3 ) 2006 benefit liability $ 42 $ (36 ) Savings Plan Our U.S. employees are eligible to participate in 401(k) savings plans, which are voluntary defined contribution plans. The plans are designed to help employees accumulate additional savings for retirement. We make matching contributions on a portion of eligible pay based on years of service. In 2006 and 2005, our matching contributions were $56 million and $52 million, respectively. For additional unaudited information on our pension and retiree medical plans and related accounting policies and assumptions, see Our Critical Accounting Policies in Managements Discussion and Analysis. Note 8 Noncontrolled Bottling Affiliates Our most significant noncontrolled bottling affiliates are PBG and PAS. Approximately 10% of our total net revenue in 2006, 2005 and 2004 reflects sales to PBG. 85 Table of Contents The Pepsi Bottling Group In addition to approximately 38% and 41% of PBGs outstanding common stock that we own at year end 2006 and 2005, respectively, we own 100% of PBGs class B common stock and approximately 7% of the equity of Bottling Group, LLC, PBGs principal operating subsidiary. This gives us economic ownership of approximately 43% and 45% of PBGs combined operations at year end 2006 and 2005, respectively. Bottling equity income includes $186 million and $126 million of pre tax gains on our sales of PBG stock in 2006 and 2005, respectively. PBGs summarized financial information is as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Current assets $ 2,749 $ 2,412 Noncurrent assets 9,178 9,112 Total assets $ 11,927 $ 11,524 Current liabilities $ 2,051 $ 2,598 Noncurrent liabilities 7,252 6,387 Minority interest 540 496 Total liabilities $ 9,843 $ 9,481 Our investment $ 1,842 $ 1,738 Net revenue $ 12,730 $ 11,885 $ 10,906 Gross profit $ 5,920 $ 5,632 $ 5,250 Operating profit $ 1,017 $ 1,023 $ 976 Net income $ 522 $ 466 $ 457 Our investment in PBG, which includes the related goodwill, was $500 million and $400 million higher than our ownership interest in their net assets at year end 2006 and 2005, respectively. Based upon the quoted closing price of PBG shares at year end 2006 and 2005, the calculated market value of our shares in PBG, excluding our investment in Bottling Group, LLC, exceeded our investment balance by approximately $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. 86 Table of Contents PepsiAmericas At year end 2006 and 2005, we owned approximately 44% and 43% of PepsiAmericas, respectively, and their summarized financial information is as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Current assets $ 675 $ 598 Noncurrent assets 3,532 3,456 Total assets $ 4,207 $ 4,054 Current liabilities $ 694 $ 722 Noncurrent liabilities 1,909 1,763 Total liabilities $ 2,603 $ 2,485 Our investment $ 1,028 $ 968 Net revenue $ 3,972 $ 3,726 $ 3,345 Gross profit $ 1,608 $ 1,562 $ 1,423 Operating profit $ 356 $ 393 $ 340 Net income $ 158 $ 195 $ 182 Our investment in PAS, which includes the related goodwill, was $316 million and $292 million higher than our ownership interest in their net assets at year end 2006 and 2005, respectively. Based upon the quoted closing price of PAS shares at year end 2006 and 2005, the calculated market value of our shares in PepsiAmericas exceeded our investment balance by approximately $173 million and $364 million, respectively. In January 2005, PAS acquired a regional bottler, Central Investment Corporation. The table above includes the results of Central Investment Corporation from the transaction date forward. Related Party Transactions Our significant related party transactions involve our noncontrolled bottling affiliates. We sell concentrate to these affiliates, which they use in the production of CSDs and non carbonated beverages. We also sell certain finished goods to these affiliates and we receive royalties for the use of our trademarks for certain products. Sales of concentrate and finished goods are reported net of bottler funding. For further unaudited information on these bottlers, see Our Customers in Managements Discussion and Analysis. These transactions with our bottling affiliates are reflected in our consolidated financial statements as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Net revenue $ 4,837 $ 4,633 $ 4,170 Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 87 $ 143 $ 114 Accounts and notes receivable $ 175 $ 178 Accounts payable and other current liabilities $ 62 $ 117 87 Table of Contents Such amounts are settled on terms consistent with other trade receivables and payables. See Note 9 regarding our guarantee of certain PBG debt. In addition, we coordinate, on an aggregate basis, the negotiation and purchase of sweeteners and other raw materials requirements for certain of our bottlers with suppliers. Once we have negotiated the contracts, the bottlers order and take delivery directly from the supplier and pay the suppliers directly. Consequently, these transactions are not reflected in our consolidated financial statements. As the contracting party, we could be liable to these suppliers in the event of any nonpayment by our bottlers, but we consider this exposure to be remote. Note 9 Debt Obligations and Commitments 2006 2005 Short term debt obligations Current maturities of long term debt $ 605 $ 143 Commercial paper (5.3% and 3.3%) 792 3,140 Other borrowings (7.3% and 7.4%) 377 356 Amounts reclassified to long term debt (1,500 ) (750 ) $ 274 $ 2,889 Long term debt obligations Short term borrowings, reclassified $ 1,500 $ 750 Notes due 2007 2026 (6.0% and 5.4%) 1,148 1,161 Zero coupon notes, $425 million due 2007 2012 (13.4%) 299 312 Other, due 2007 2016 (6.1% and 6.3%) 208 233 $ 3,155 2,456 Less: current maturities of long term debt obligations (605 ) (143 ) $ 2,550 $ 2,313 The interest rates in the above table reflect weighted average rates at year end. In the second quarter of 2006, we entered into a new unsecured revolving credit agreement which enables us to borrow up to $1.5 billion subject to customary terms and conditions. Funds borrowed under this agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, including supporting our outstanding commercial paper issuances. The agreement terminates in May 2011 and replaces our previous $2.1 billion of credit facilities. As of December 30, 2006, we have reclassified $1.5 billion of short term debt to long term based on our intent and ability to refinance on a long term basis. In addition, $394 million of our debt related to borrowings from various lines of credit maintained for our international divisions. These lines of credit are subject to normal banking terms and conditions and are fully committed to the extent of our borrowings. In the third quarter of 2006, we entered into a U.S. $2.5 billion euro medium term note program. Under the program, we may issue unsecured notes under mutually agreed upon terms with the purchasers of the notes. Proceeds from any issuance of notes may be used 88 Table of Contents for general corporate purposes, except as otherwise specified in the related prospectus. As of December 30, 2006, we have no outstanding notes under the program. Interest Rate Swaps We entered into interest rate swaps in 2004 to effectively convert the interest rate of a specific debt issuance from a fixed rate of 3.2% to a variable rate. The variable weighted average interest rate that we pay is linked to LIBOR and is subject to change. The notional amount of the interest rate swaps outstanding at December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 was $500 million. The terms of the interest rate swaps match the terms of the debt they modify. The swaps mature in May 2007. At December 30, 2006, approximately 63% of total debt, after the impact of the related interest rate swaps, was exposed to variable interest rates, compared to 78% at December 31, 2005. In addition to variable rate long term debt, all debt with maturities of less than one year is categorized as variable for purposes of this measure. Cross Currency Interest Rate Swaps In 2004, we entered into a cross currency interest rate swap to hedge the currency exposure on U.S. dollar denominated debt of $50 million held by a foreign affiliate. The terms of this swap match the terms of the debt it modifies. The swap matures in 2008. The unrealized gain related to this swap was less than $1 million at December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, resulting in a U.S. dollar liability of $50 million. We have also entered into cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the currency exposure on U.S. dollar denominated intercompany debt of $95 million at December 30, 2006 and $125 million at December 31, 2005. The terms of the swaps match the terms of the debt they modify. The swaps mature in 2007. The net unrealized loss related to these swaps was less than $1 million at December 30, 2006 and the net unrealized gain related to these swaps was $5 million at December 31, 2005. 89 Table of Contents Long Term Contractual Commitments Payments Due by Period Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012andbeyond Long term debt obligations(a) $ 1,050 $ $ 583 $ 125 $ 342 Interest on debt obligations(b) 295 50 57 43 145 Operating leases 922 231 302 176 213 Purchasing commitments 5,205 1,357 2,216 871 761 Marketing commitments 1,199 287 453 332 127 Other commitments 279 229 43 5 2 $ 8,950 $ 2,154 $ 3,654 $ 1,552 $ 1,590 (a) Excludes current maturities of long term debt of $605 million which are classified within current liabilities, as well as short term borrowings reclassified as long term debt of $1,500 million. (b) Interest payments on floating rate debt are estimated using interest rates effective as of December 30, 2006. The above table reflects non cancelable commitments as of December 30, 2006 based on year end foreign exchange rates. Most long term contractual commitments, except for our long term debt obligations, are not recorded on our balance sheet. Non cancelable operating leases primarily represent building leases. Non cancelable purchasing commitments are primarily for oranges and orange juice, cooking oil and packaging materials. Non cancelable marketing commitments primarily are for sports marketing. Bottler funding is not reflected in our long term contractual commitments as it is negotiated on an annual basis. See Note 7 regarding our pension and retiree medical obligations and discussion below regarding our commitments to noncontrolled bottling affiliates and former restaurant operations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements It is not our business practice to enter into off balance sheet arrangements, other than in the normal course of business, nor is it our policy to issue guarantees to our bottlers, noncontrolled affiliates or third parties. However, certain guarantees were necessary to facilitate the separation of our bottling and restaurant operations from us. In connection with these transactions, we have guaranteed $2.3 billion of Bottling Group, LLCs long term debt through 2012 and $23 million of YUM! Brands, Inc.s (YUM) outstanding obligations, primarily property leases, through 2020. The terms of our Bottling Group, LLC debt guarantee are intended to preserve the structure of PBGs separation from us and our payment obligation would be triggered if Bottling Group, LLC failed to perform under these debt obligations or the structure significantly changed. Our guarantees of certain obligations ensured YUMs continued use of certain properties. These guarantees would require our cash payment if YUM failed to perform under these lease obligations. See Our Liquidity and Capital Resources in Managements Discussion and Analysis for further unaudited information on our borrowings. 90 Table of Contents Note 10 Risk Management We are exposed to the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in: commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy, foreign exchange risks, interest rates, stock prices, and discount rates affecting the measurement of our pension and retiree medical liabilities. In the normal course of business, we manage these risks through a variety of strategies, including the use of derivatives. Certain derivatives are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges and qualify for hedge accounting treatment, while others do not qualify and are marked to market through earnings. See Our Business Risks in Managements Discussion and Analysis for further unaudited information on our business risks. For cash flow hedges, changes in fair value are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive loss within shareholders equity until the underlying hedged item is recognized in net income. For fair value hedges, changes in fair value are recognized immediately in earnings, consistent with the underlying hedged item. Hedging transactions are limited to an underlying exposure. As a result, any change in the value of our derivative instruments would be substantially offset by an opposite change in the value of the underlying hedged items. Hedging ineffectiveness and a net earnings impact occur when the change in the value of the hedge does not offset the change in the value of the underlying hedged item. If the derivative instrument is terminated, we continue to defer the related gain or loss and include it as a component of the cost of the underlying hedged item. Upon determination that the underlying hedged item will not be part of an actual transaction, we recognize the related gain or loss in net income in that period. We also use derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We account for such derivatives at market value with the resulting gains and losses reflected in our income statement. We do not use derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes, and we limit our exposure to individual counterparties to manage credit risk. Commodity Prices We are subject to commodity price risk because our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing may be limited in the competitive environment in which we operate. This risk is managed through the use of fixed price purchase orders, pricing agreements, geographic diversity and derivatives. We use derivatives, with terms of no more than two years, to economically hedge price fluctuations related to a portion of our anticipated commodity purchases, primarily for natural gas and diesel fuel. For those derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting, any ineffectiveness is recorded immediately. However, such commodity cash flow hedges have not had any significant ineffectiveness for all periods presented. We classify both the earnings and cash flow impact from these derivatives consistent with the underlying hedged item. During the 91 Table of Contents next 12 months, we expect to reclassify net gains of $1 million related to cash flow hedges from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net income. Derivatives used to hedge commodity price risks that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market each period and reflected in our income statement. Foreign Exchange Our operations outside of the U.S. generate approximately 40% of our net revenue, with Mexico, the United Kingdom and Canada comprising approximately 20% of our net revenue. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency risks from unforeseen economic changes and political unrest. On occasion, we enter into hedges, primarily forward contracts with terms of no more than two years, to reduce the effect of foreign exchange rates. Ineffectiveness of these hedges has not been material. Interest Rates We centrally manage our debt and investment portfolios considering investment opportunities and risks, tax consequences and overall financing strategies. We may use interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps to manage our overall interest expense and foreign exchange risk. These instruments effectively change the interest rate and currency of specific debt issuances. These swaps are entered into concurrently with the issuance of the debt that they are intended to modify. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt. These swaps are entered into only with strong creditworthy counterparties, are settled on a net basis and are of relatively short duration. Stock Prices The portion of our deferred compensation liability that is based on certain market indices and on our stock price is subject to market risk. We hold mutual fund investments and prepaid forward contracts to manage this risk. Changes in the fair value of these investments and contracts are recognized immediately in earnings and are offset by changes in the related compensation liability. 92 Table of Contents Fair Value All derivative instruments are recognized on our balance sheet at fair value. The fair value of our derivative instruments is generally based on quoted market prices. Book and fair values of our derivative and financial instruments are as follows: 2006 2005 BookValue FairValue BookValue FairValue Assets Cash and cash equivalents(a) $ 1,651 $ 1,651 $ 1,716 $ 1,716 Short term investments(b) $ 1,171 $ 1,171 $ 3,166 $ 3,166 Forward exchange contracts(c) $ 8 $ 8 $ 19 $ 19 Commodity contracts(d) $ 2 $ 2 $ 41 $ 41 Prepaid forward contracts(e) $ 73 $ 73 $ 107 $ 107 Cross currency interest rate swaps(f) $ 1 $ 1 $ 6 $ 6 Liabilities Forward exchange contracts(c) $ 24 $ 24 $ 15 $ 15 Commodity contracts(d) $ 29 $ 29 $ 3 $ 3 Debt obligations $ 2,824 $ 2,955 $ 5,202 $ 5,378 Interest rate swaps(g) $ 4 $ 4 $ 9 $ 9 The above items are included on our balance sheet under the captions noted or as indicated below. In addition, derivatives qualify for hedge accounting unless otherwise noted below. (a) Book value approximates fair value due to the short maturity. (b) Principally short term time deposits and includes $145 million at December 30, 2006 and $124 million at December 31, 2005 of mutual fund investments used to manage a portion of market risk arising from our deferred compensation liability. (c) The 2006 liability includes $10 million related to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting and the 2005 asset includes $14 million related to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Assets are reported within current assets and other assets and liabilities are reported within current liabilities and other liabilities. (d) The 2006 liability includes $28 million related to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. The 2005 asset includes $2 million related to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting and the liability relates entirely to derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. Assets are reported within current assets and other assets and liabilities are reported within current liabilities and other liabilities. (e) Included in current assets and other assets. (f) Asset included within other assets. (g) Reported in other liabilities. This table excludes guarantees, including our guarantee of $2.3 billion of Bottling Group, LLCs long term debt. The guarantee had a fair value of $35 million at December 30, 2006 and $47 million at December 31, 2005 based on a third party estimate of the cost to us of transferring the liability to an independent financial institution. See Note 9 for additional information on our guarantees. Note 11 Net Income per Common Share from Continuing Operations Basic net income per common share is net income available to common shareholders divided by the weighted average of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per common share is calculated using the weighted average of common shares outstanding adjusted to include the effect that would occur if in the money employee stock options were exercised and RSUs and preferred shares were 93 Table of Contents converted into common shares. Options to purchase 0.1 million shares in 2006, 3.0 million shares in 2005 and 7.0 million shares in 2004 were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share because these options were out of the money. Out of the money options had average exercise prices of $65.24 in 2006, $53.77 in 2005 and $52.88 in 2004. The computations of basic and diluted net income per common share from continuing operations are as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Income Shares(a) Income Shares(a) Income Shares(a) Net income $ 5,642 $ 4,078 $ 4,174 Preferred shares: Dividends (2 ) (2 ) (3 ) Redemption premium (9 ) (16 ) (22 ) Net income available for common shareholders $ 5,631 1,649 $ 4,060 1,669 $ 4,149 1,696 Basic net income per common share $ 3.42 $ 2.43 $ 2.45 Net income available for common shareholders $ 5,631 1,649 $ 4,060 1,669 $ 4,149 1,696 Dilutive securities: Stock options and RSUs 36 35 31 ESOP convertible preferred stock 11 2 18 2 24 2 Diluted $ 5,642 1,687 $ 4,078 1,706 $ 4,173 1,729 Diluted net income per common share $ 3.34 $ 2.39 $ 2.41 (a) Weighted average common shares outstanding. Note 12 Preferred and Common Stock As of December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, there were 3.6 billion shares of common stock and 3 million shares of convertible preferred stock authorized. The preferred stock was issued only for an ESOP established by Quaker and these shares are redeemable for common stock by the ESOP participants. The preferred stock accrues dividends at an annual rate of $5.46 per share. At year end 2006 and 2005, there were 803,953 preferred shares issued and 320,853 and 354,853 shares outstanding, respectively. The outstanding preferred shares had a fair value of $100 million as of December 30, 2006 and $104 million as of December 31, 2005. Each share is convertible at the option of the holder into 4.9625 shares of common stock. The preferred shares may be called by us upon written notice at $78 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends. There were 17 million shares of common stock held in the accounts of ESOP participants as of December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005. Quaker made the final award to its ESOP plan in June 2001. 94 Table of Contents 2006 2005 2004 Shares Amount Shares Amount Shares Amount Preferred stock 0.8 $ 41 0.8 $ 41 0.8 $ 41 Repurchased preferred stock Balance, beginning of year 0.5 $ 110 0.4 $ 90 0.3 $ 63 Redemptions 10 0.1 19 0.1 27 Balance, end of year 0.5 $ 120 0.5 $ 110 * 0.4 $ 90 * Does not sum due to rounding. Note 13 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Comprehensive income is a measure of income which includes both net income and other comprehensive income or loss. Other comprehensive income or loss results from items deferred from recognition into our income statement. Accumulated other comprehensive loss is separately presented on our balance sheet as part of common shareholders equity. Other comprehensive income/(loss) was $456 million in 2006, $(167) million in 2005 and $381 million in 2004. The accumulated balances for each component of other comprehensive loss were as follows: 2006 2005 2004 Currency translation adjustment $ (506 ) $ (971 ) $ (720 ) Cash flow hedges, net of tax(a) 4 27 (19 ) Unamortized pension and retiree medical, net of tax(b) (1,782 ) Minimum pension liability adjustment(c) (138 ) (154 ) Unrealized gain on securities, net of tax 40 31 7 Other (2 ) (2 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss $ (2,246 ) $ (1,053 ) $ (886 ) (a) Includes $3 million gain in 2006, no impact in 2005 and $6 million gain in 2004 for our share of our equity investees accumulated derivative activity. (b) Net of taxes of $964 million in 2006. (c) Net of taxes of $72 million in 2005 and $77 million in 2004. Also includes $120 million in 2005 and $121 million in 2004 for our share of our equity investees minimum pension liability adjustments. 95 Table of Contents Note 14 Supplemental Financial Information 2006 2005 2004 Accounts receivable Trade receivables $ 3,147 $ 2,718 Other receivables 642 618 3,789 3,336 Allowance, beginning of year 75 97 $ 105 Net amounts charged/(credited) to expense 10 (1 ) 18 Deductions (a) (27 ) (22 ) (25 ) Other (b) 6 1 (1 ) Allowance, end of year 64 75 $ 97 Net receivables $ 3,725 $ 3,261 Inventories (c) Raw materials $ 860 $ 738 Work in process 140 112 Finished goods 926 843 $ 1,926 $ 1,693 (a) Includes accounts written off. (b) Includes currency translation effects and other adjustments. (c) Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the average, first in, first out (FIFO) or last in, first out (LIFO) methods. Approximately 19% in 2006 and 17% in 2005 of the inventory cost was computed using the LIFO method. The differences between LIFO and FIFO methods of valuing these inventories were not material. 2006 2005 Other assets Non current notes and accounts receivable $ 149 $ 186 Deferred marketplace spending 232 281 Unallocated purchase price for recent acquisitions 196 256 Pension plans 197 2,440 Other 206 240 $ 980 $ 3,403 Accounts payable and other current liabilities Accounts payable $ 2,102 $ 1,799 Accrued marketplace spending 1,444 1,383 Accrued compensation and benefits 1,143 1,062 Dividends payable 492 431 Other current liabilities 1,315 1,296 $ 6,496 $ 5,971 Other liabilities Reserves for income taxes $ 1,435 $ 1,884 Other 3,189 2,439 $ 4,624 $ 4,323 96 Table of Contents 2006 2005 2004 Other supplemental information Rent expense $ 291 $ 228 $ 245 Interest paid $ 215 $ 213 $ 137 Income taxes paid, net of refunds $ 2,155 $ 1,258 $ 1,833 Acquisitions(a) Fair value of assets acquired $ 678 $ 1,089 $ 78 Cash paid and debt issued (522 ) (1,096 ) (64 ) SVE minority interest eliminated 216 Liabilities assumed $ 156 $ 209 $ 14 (a) In 2005, these amounts include the impact of our acquisition of General Mills, Inc.s 40.5% ownership interest in SVE for $750 million. The excess of our purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired is $250 million and is included in goodwill. We also reacquired rights to distribute global brands for $263 million which is included in other nonamortizable intangible assets. 97 Table of Contents Managements Responsibility for Financial Reporting To Our Shareholders: At PepsiCo, our actions the actions of all our associates are governed by our Worldwide Code of Conduct. This code is clearly aligned with our stated values a commitment to sustained growth, through empowered people, operating with responsibility and building trust. Both the code and our core values enable us to operate with integrity both within the letter and the spirit of the law. Our code of conduct is reinforced consistently at all levels and in all countries. We have maintained strong governance policies and practices for many years. The management of PepsiCo is responsible for the objectivity and integrity of our consolidated financial statements. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has engaged independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, to audit our consolidated financial statements and they have expressed an unqualified opinion. We are committed to providing timely, accurate and understandable information to investors. Our commitment encompasses the following: Maintaining strong controls over financial reporting. Our system of internal control is based on the control criteria framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission published in their report titled, Internal Control Integrated Framework. The system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are executed as authorized and accurately recorded; that assets are safeguarded; and that accounting records are sufficiently reliable to permit the preparation of financial statements that conform in all material respects with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the specified time periods. We monitor these internal controls through self assessments and an ongoing program of internal audits. Our internal controls are reinforced through our Worldwide Code of Conduct, which sets forth our commitment to conduct business with integrity, and within both the letter and the spirit of the law. Exerting rigorous oversight of the business. We continuously review our business results and strategies. This encompasses financial discipline in our strategic and daily business decisions. Our Executive Committee is actively involved from understanding strategies and alternatives to reviewing key initiatives and financial performance. The intent is to ensure we remain objective in our assessments, constructively challenge our approach to potential business opportunities and issues, and monitor results and controls. Engaging strong and effective Corporate Governance from our Board of Directors. We have an active, capable and diligent Board that meets the required standards for independence, and we welcome the Boards oversight as a representative of our shareholders. Our Audit Committee is comprised of independent directors with the financial literacy, knowledge and experience to provide appropriate oversight. We review our critical accounting policies, financial reporting and internal control matters with them and encourage their direct communication with KPMG LLP, with our General 98 Table of Contents Auditor, and with our General Counsel. We also have a senior compliance officer to lead and coordinate our compliance policies and practices. Providing investors with financial results that are complete, transparent and understandable. The consolidated financial statements and financial information included in this report are the responsibility of management. This includes preparing the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require estimates based on managements best judgment. PepsiCo has a strong history of doing whats right. We realize that great companies are built on trust, strong ethical standards and principles. Our financial results are delivered from that culture of accountability, and we take responsibility for the quality and accuracy of our financial reporting. /S/ PETER A. BRIDGMAN Peter A. Bridgman Senior Vice President and Controller /S/ RICHARD GOODMAN Richard Goodman Chief Financial Officer /S/ INDRA K. NOOYI Indra K. Nooyi President and Chief Executive Officer 99 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Board of Directors and Shareholders PepsiCo, Inc.: We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet of PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Cash Flows and Common Shareholders Equity for each of the years in the three year period ended December 30, 2006. We have also audited managements assessment, included in Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 30, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). PepsiCo, Inc.s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements, an opinion on managements assessment, and an opinion on the effectiveness of PepsiCo, Inc.s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries as of December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended December 30, 2006, in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, managements assessment that PepsiCo, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 30, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by COSO. Furthermore, in our opinion, PepsiCo, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 30, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by COSO. As discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, PepsiCo, Inc. and Subsidiaries adopted the provisions of FASB Statement No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans an amendment to FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R), as of December 30, 2006. /s/ KPMG LLP New York, New York February 16, 2007 100 Table of Contents Selected Financial Data (in millions except per share amounts, unaudited) Quarterly FirstQuarter SecondQuarter ThirdQuarter Fourth Quarter Net revenue 2006 $ 7,205 $ 8,599 $ 8,950 $ 10,383 2005 $ 6,585 $ 7,697 $ 8,184 $ 10,096 Gross profit 2006 $ 4,026 $ 4,790 $ 4,920 $ 5,639 2005 $ 3,715 $ 4,383 $ 4,669 $ 5,619 2006 restructuring and impairment charges (a) 2006 $ 67 2005 restructuring charges (a) 2005 $ 83 2006 Tax Adjustments (b) 2006 $ (602 ) AJCA tax charge (c) 2005 $ 468 $ (8 ) Net income 2006 $ 1,019 $ 1,358 $ 1,481 $ 1,784 2005 $ 912 $ 1,194 $ 864 $ 1,108 Net income per common share basic 2006 $ 0.61 $ 0.82 $ 0.90 $ 1.09 2005 $ 0.54 $ 0.71 $ 0.52 $ 0.66 Net income per common share diluted 2006 $ 0.60 $ 0.80 $ 0.88 $ 1.06 2005 $ 0.53 $ 0.70 $ 0.51 $ 0.65 Cash dividends declared per common share 2006 $ 0.26 $ 0.30 $ 0.30 $ 0.30 2005 $ 0.23 $ 0.26 $ 0.26 $ 0.26 2006 stock price per share (d) High $ 60.55 $ 61.19 $ 65.99 $ 65.99 Low $ 56.00 $ 56.51 $ 58.65 $ 61.15 Close $ 59.34 $ 59.70 $ 64.73 $ 62.55 2005 stock price per share (d) High $ 55.71 $ 57.20 $ 56.73 $ 60.34 Low $ 51.34 $ 51.78 $ 52.07 $ 53.55 Close $ 52.62 $ 55.52 $ 54.65 $ 59.08 The first, second, and third quarters consist of 12 weeks and the fourth quarter consists of 16 weeks in 2006 and 17 weeks in 2005. (a) The 2006 restructuring and impairment charges were $67 million ($43 million or $0.03 per share after tax). The 2005 restructuring charges were $83 million ($55 million or $0.03 per share after tax). See Note 3. (b) Represents non cash tax benefits in connection with the 2006 Tax Adjustments. See Note 5. (c) Represents income tax expense associated with our repatriation of earnings in connection with the AJCA. See Note 5. (d) Represents the composite high and low sales price and quarterly closing prices for one share of PepsiCo common stock. 101 Table of Contents FiveYear Summary 2006 2005 2004 Net revenue $ 35,137 $ 32,562 $ 29,261 Income from continuing operations $ 5,642 $ 4,078 $ 4,174 Net income $ 5,642 $ 4,078 $ 4,212 Income per common share basic, continuing operations $ 3.42 $ 2.43 $ 2.45 Income per common share diluted, continuing operations $ 3.34 $ 2.39 $ 2.41 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 1.16 $ 1.01 $ 0.85 Total assets $ 29,930 $ 31,727 $ 27,987 Long term debt $ 2,550 $ 2,313 $ 2,397 Return on invested capital(a) 30.4 % 22.7 % 27.4 % 2003 2002 Net revenue $ 26,971 $ 25,112 Net income $ 3,568 $ 3,000 Income per common share basic $ 2.07 $ 1.69 Income per common share diluted $ 2.05 $ 1.68 Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.63 $ 0.595 Total assets $ 25,327 $ 23,474 Long term debt $ 1,702 $ 2,187 Return on invested capital(a) 27.5 % 25.7 % (a) Return on invested capital is defined as adjusted net income divided by the sum of average shareholders equity and average total debt. Adjusted net income is defined as net income plus net interest expense after tax. Net interest expense after tax was $72 million in 2006, $62 million in 2005, $60 million in 2004, $72 million in 2003 and $93 million in 2002. Includes restructuring and impairment charges of: 2006 2005 2004 2003 Pre tax $ 67 $ 83 $ 150 $ 147 After tax $ 43 $ 55 $ 96 $ 100 Per share $ 0.03 $ 0.03 $ 0.06 $ 0.06 Includes Quaker merger related costs of: 2003 2002 Pre tax $ 59 $ 224 After tax $ 42 $ 190 Per share $ 0.02 $ 0.11 In 2006, we recognized non cash tax benefits of $602 million ($0.36 per share) in connection with the 2006 Tax Adjustments. In 2005, we recorded income tax expense of $460 million ($0.27 per share) related to our repatriation of earnings in connection with the AJCA. In 2004, we reached agreement with the IRS for an open issue related to our discontinued restaurant operations which resulted in a tax benefit of $38 million ($0.02 per share). On December 30, 2006, we adopted SFAS 158 which reduced total assets by $2,016 million, total common shareholders equity by $1,643 million and total liabilities by $373 million. The 2005 fiscal year consisted of fifty three weeks compared to fifty two weeks in our normal fiscal year. The 53rd week increased 2005 net revenue by an estimated $418 million and net income by an estimated $57 million ($0.03 per share). 102 Table of Contents GLOSSARY Anchor bottlers: The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG), PepsiAmericas (PAS) and Pepsi Bottling Ventures (PBV). Bottler: customers to whom we have granted exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographical area. Bottler Case Sales (BCS): measure of physical beverage volume sold from our bottlers to independent distributors and retailers. Bottler funding: financial incentives we give to our bottlers to assist in the distribution and promotion of our beverage products. Business Process Transformation (BPT): our comprehensive multi year effort to drive efficiencies. It includes efforts to consolidate, or integrate, key business functions to take advantage of our scale. It also includes moving to a common set of processes that underlie our key activities, and supporting them with a common technology application. And finally, it includes our SAP installation, the computer system that will link all of our systems and processes. Concentrate Shipments and Equivalents (CSE): measure of our physical beverage volume sold to our customers. This measure is reported on our fiscal year basis. Consumers: people who eat and drink our products. Customers: authorized bottlers and independent distributors and retailers. CSD: carbonated soft drinks. Derivatives: financial instruments that we use to manage our risk arising from changes in commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and stock prices. Direct Store Delivery (DSD): delivery system used by us and our bottlers to deliver snacks and beverages directly to retail stores where our products are merchandised. Effective net pricing: reflects the year over year impact of discrete pricing actions, sales incentive activities and mix resulting from selling varying products in different package sizes and in different countries. Management operating cash flow: net cash provided by operating activities less capital spending plus sales of property, plant and equipment. It is our primary measure used to monitor cash flow performance. Marketplace spending: sales incentives offered through various programs to our customers and consumers (trade spending), as well as advertising and other marketing activities. 103 Table of Contents Servings: common metric reflecting our consolidated physical unit volume. Our divisions physical unit measures are converted into servings based on U.S. Food and Drug Administration guidelines for single serving sizes of our products. Smart Spot: our initiative that helps consumers find our products that can contribute to healthier lifestyles. Transaction gains and losses: the impact on our consolidated financial statements of exchange rate changes arising from specific transactions. Translation adjustments: the impact of the conversion of our foreign affiliates financial statements to U.S. dollars for the purpose of consolidating our financial statements. 104 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Included in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis Our Business Risks. 
 
