Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Company Overview Becton, Dickinson and Company (BD) is a global medical technology company engaged principally in the development, manufacture and sale of medical devices, instrument systems and reagents used by healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. Our business consists of three worldwide business segments BD Medical (Medical), BD Diagnostics (Diagnostics) and BD Biosciences (Biosciences). Our products are marketed in the United States and internationally through independent distribution channels and directly to end users by BD and independent sales representatives. References to years throughout this discussion relate to our fiscal years, which end on September 30. BD management operates the business consistent with the following core strategies: To increase revenue growth by focusing on products that deliver greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers; To improve operating effectiveness and balance sheet productivity; To strengthen organizational and associate capabilities in the ever changing healthcare environment; and To drive shareholder value through earnings per share growth and effective use of shareholders funds. Our efforts to increase revenues are focused on four specific areas of healthcare: Reducing the spread of infection; Advancing global health; Enhancing therapy; and Improving disease management. In assessing the outcomes of these strategies and BDs financial condition and operating performance, management generally reviews quarterly forecast data, monthly actual results, segment sales and other similar information. We also consider trends related to certain key financial data, including gross profit margin, selling and administrative expense, investment in research and development, return on invested capital, and cash flows. 14 Table of Contents Worldwide revenues in 2009 of $7.2 billion increased 1% from the prior year and reflected volume increases of approximately 5% and price increases of less than 1%, which were partially offset by net unfavorable foreign currency translation of 4%, after factoring in hedge gains. Our reported revenues reflect the effect current economic conditions are having on customer demand in certain areas of our business. U.S. revenues increased 3% to $3.2 billion. Sales in the United States of safety engineered devices grew 4% to $1.1 billion in 2009, from $1.0 billion in 2008. International revenues of $4.0 billion were relatively flat compared with the prior year and reflected an estimated 7 percentage points of unfavorable foreign currency translation, net of hedge gains. International sales of safety engineered devices grew 7% to $571 million in 2009 from $534 million in 2008, and reflected an estimated 10 percentage points of unfavorable foreign currency translation, net of hedge gains. Our anticipated revenue growth over the next three years is expected to come from business growth and expansion among all segments and regions of the world, and the development in each business segment of new products and services that provide increased benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers. Our ability to sustain our long term growth will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to expand our core business (including geographical expansion), develop innovative new products with higher gross profit margins across our business segments, and continue to improve operating efficiency and organizational effectiveness. Numerous factors can affect our ability to achieve these goals including, without limitation, economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere, increased competition and healthcare reform initiatives. Specifically, there are various healthcare reform proposals in the U.S. Congress that, if enacted in their current form, would impose an excise tax on medical device manufacturers such as BD. We face currency exposure that arises from translating the results of our worldwide operations to the U.S. dollar at exchange rates that fluctuate from the beginning of the period. We purchase forward contracts to partially protect against adverse foreign exchange rate movements. Gains or losses on our derivative instruments are largely offset by the gains or losses on the underlying hedged transactions. During 2009, the U.S. dollar strengthened against most foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, compared to rates from 2008. The resulting unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation on revenues in 2009 was mitigated to an extent by hedge gains, recorded in revenues, resulting from our hedging activities. For further discussion refer to Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Results of Continuing Operations Comparisons of income from continuing operations between 2009 and 2008 are affected by the following significant items that are reflected in our 2009 financial results: During the third quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a tax benefit of $20 million, or 8 cents diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, relating to various tax settlements in multiple jurisdictions. During the second quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a charge of $45 million, or 11 cents diluted earnings per share from continuing operations associated with the pending settlement with the direct purchaser plaintiffs (which includes BDs distributors) in certain antitrust class actions. Medical Segment Medical revenues in 2009 of $3.7 billion increased $11 million, or 0.3%, over 2008, as volume growth was mostly offset by an estimated impact of unfavorable foreign currency translation of 5 percentage points, net of hedge gains. The following is a summary of revenues by organizational unit: 15 Table of Contents Estimated Foreign Total Exchange (Millions of dollars) 2009 2008 Change Impact Medical Surgical Systems $ 1,985 $ 2,005 (1.0 %) (5.5 %) Diabetes Care 715 694 3.0 % (3.8 %) Pharmaceutical Systems 952 942 1.1 % (6.3 %) Ophthalmic Systems 79 79 (0.2 %) (5.5 %) Total Revenues $ 3,731 $ 3,720 0.3 % (5.4 %) On a foreign currency neutral basis, revenue growth of the Medical Surgical Systems unit continues to be driven by sales in safety engineered products and prefilled flush syringes. Revenues of safety engineered products increased 2% in the United States and 13% internationally, which included an estimated unfavorable foreign exchange impact of 12%, net of hedge gains. Revenue growth in the Diabetes Care unit resulted primarily from worldwide pen needle sales. Revenue growth in the Pharmaceutical Systems unit was driven by growth in Europe and Asia Pacific, offset by lower sales in the United States when compared to 2008, which included non recurring sales to companies producing certain generic heparin products. Revenues related to the H1N1 pandemic were $30 million for the Medical Surgical Systems unit and $25 million for the Pharmaceutical Systems unit in 2009. Medical operating income was $1.1 billion, or 29.7% of Medical revenues, in 2009, as compared with $1.1 billion, or 28.3%, of revenues in 2008. Operating income as a percentage of revenues reflected an increase in gross profit margin primarily resulting from favorable currency translation, including hedge gains, and a modest benefit from lower raw materials cost, which was partially offset by increased manufacturing start up costs. See further discussion on gross profit margin below. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of Medical revenues in 2009 declined to 17.3% of revenues from 17.8% of revenues in 2008, primarily due to tight spending controls. Research and development expenses in 2009 increased $6 million, or 5%, reflecting continued investment in the development of new products and platforms. Diagnostics Segment Diagnostics revenues in 2009 of $2.2 billion increased $66 million, or 3%, over 2008. Revenues in 2009 reflected an estimated unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of 4 percentage points, net of hedge gains. The following is a summary of revenues by organizational unit: Estimated Foreign Total Exchange (Millions of dollars) 2009 2008 Change Impact Preanalytical Systems $ 1,143 $ 1,124 1.8 % (4.6 %) Diagnostic Systems 1,083 1,036 4.5 % (2.9 %) Total Revenues $ 2,226 $ 2,160 3.1 % (3.7 %) Revenue growth in the Preanalytical Systems unit was driven by sales of safety engineered products. Sales of safety engineered products grew 6% in the United States, driven by BD Vacutainer Push Button Blood Collection Set sales and 4% internationally, which included an estimated unfavorable foreign exchange impact of 10%, net of hedge gains. The Diagnostics Systems unit experienced growth in worldwide sales of its automated diagnostic platforms, including the molecular BD ProbeTec, BD 16 Table of Contents Viper and BD Affirm systems, along with solid growth of its BD BACTEC blood culture and TB systems and the BD Phoenix ID/AST platform. Revenues of flu related products were $22 million in 2009. In addition, revenues from TriPath grew $11 million to $130 million and revenues from GeneOhm grew $9 million to $51 million in 2009. Diagnostics operating income was $607 million, or 27.3% of Diagnostics revenues in 2009, compared with $526 million, or 24.3% of revenues in 2008. The Diagnostics Segment experienced an improvement in gross profit margin from sales growth of products that have higher overall gross profit margins, in particular, safety engineered products and the BD ProbeTec and BD Viper systems. This was partially offset by increases in raw material costs and unfavorable foreign exchange. See further discussion on gross profit margin below. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of Diagnostics revenues in 2009 was 21.2% compared with 22.0% in 2008 primarily due to tight spending controls. Research and development expense increased $10 million, or 7%, reflecting continued investment in the development of new products and platforms with particular emphasis on our molecular platforms. Biosciences Segment Biosciences revenues in 2009 of $1.2 billion increased $9 million or 1% over 2008, which reflected an estimated impact of unfavorable foreign currency translation of 1 percentage point, net of hedge gains. The following is a summary of revenues by organizational unit: Estimated Foreign Total Exchange (Millions of dollars) 2009 2008 Change Impact Cell Analysis $ 905 $ 901 0.4 % (1.0 %) Discovery Labware 299 295 1.6 % (0.3 %) Total Revenues * $ 1,204 $ 1,195 0.7 % (0.8 %) * Amounts may not add due to rounding. Revenue growth in the Cell Analysis unit reflected lessening demand for instruments and research reagents, caused primarily by adverse economic conditions in the U.S. that resulted in funding constraints and lower demand for capital equipment. The unit was also impacted by reduced research spending in other regions. Revenue growth in the Discovery Labware unit was adversely impacted by reduced sales to a major bionutrients customer compared with 2008. Biosciences revenues reflected a larger portion of our hedge gains, which are allocated to the segments based on their proportionate share of international sales of U.S. produced products. Biosciences operating income was $362 million, or 30.1% of Biosciences revenues in 2009, compared with $334 million, or 27.9% in 2008. The increase in operating income, as a percentage of revenues, reflects gross profit improvement from the favorable impact of foreign currency translation, including hedge gains. See further discussion on gross profit margin below. In addition, selling and administrative expense as a percentage of Biosciences revenues declined in 2009 to 21.6% from 23.0% in 2008, primarily due to tight spending controls. Research and development expense in 2009 was flat compared to 2008. Geographic Revenues Revenues in the United States in 2009 of $3.2 billion increased 3%. Overall, growth was led by sales of safety engineered products, which increased 4% to $1.1 billion, as well as sales of Diabetes Care products. Revenue growth was adversely impacted by lower sales of immunocytometry instruments and reagents and Pharmaceutical Systems products, as previously discussed. International revenues in 2009 of $4.0 billion were relatively flat compared with the prior year, as increased sales volume was offset by an estimated impact of unfavorable foreign currency translation of 7 percentage points, net of hedge gains. Volume growth was led by sales in Western Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America in 2009. International sales of safety engineered devices grew 17 Table of Contents 7% to $571 million in 2009 from $534 million in 2008 and reflected an estimated 10 percentage points of unfavorable foreign currency translation. Gross Profit Margin Gross profit margin increased to 52.6% in 2009, from 51.3% in 2008. Gross profit margin in 2009 reflected an estimated favorable impact of 140 basis points from both foreign currency translation and the hedging of certain foreign currencies and 20 basis points from lower raw materials cost. Partially offsetting these gains were increases in manufacturing start up costs of approximately 30 basis points. Operating Expenses Selling and administrative expense was $1.7 billion, or 23.8% of revenues, in 2009 compared with $1.7 billion, or 24.0% of revenues in 2008. Aggregate expenses reflected the $45 million litigation charge previously discussed and $48 million of increased core spending. These increases were partially offset by $84 million of favorable foreign exchange impacts. Research and development (RD) expense in 2009 was $408 million, or 5.7% of revenues, compared with $396 million, or 5.6% of revenues, in 2008. The increase in RD expenditures includes spending for new products and platforms in the Medical and Diagnostics segments, as previously discussed. Operating Income Operating margin in 2009 was 23.0% of revenues, compared with 21.7% in 2008. The litigation charge noted above decreased operating margin in 2009 by 70 basis points. Non Operating Expense and Income Interest expense was $40 million in 2009, compared with $36 million in 2008. This increase reflected higher debt levels offset, in part, by lower interest rates on floating rate debt. Interest income was $33 million in 2009, compared with $39 million in 2008. This decrease was attributable to the impact of lower interest rates on floating rate investments, partially offset by a benefit from investment gains on assets associated with our deferred compensation plan. A related increase in the deferred compensation plan liability was recorded as an increase in selling and administrative expenses. Income Taxes The effective tax rate in 2009 was 26.0% compared with the 2008 rate of 27.5%, and reflected a 1.2% benefit due to various tax settlements in multiple jurisdictions. Discontinued Operations In July 2009, the Company sold certain assets and liabilities related to the elastics and thermometer components of the Home Healthcare product line of the Medical segment for $51 million. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial Statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional discussion. Income and Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2009 were $1.2 billion and $4.92, respectively. The tax benefit discussed above increased income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2009 by $20 million, or 8 cents, respectively. The litigation charge discussed above decreased income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2009 by $28 million, or 11 cents, respectively. Income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2008 were $1.1 million and $4.42, respectively. Financial Instrument Market Risk 18 Table of Contents We selectively use financial instruments to manage market risk, primarily foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk relating to our ongoing business operations. The counterparties to these contracts are highly rated financial institutions. We do not enter into financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. BD and its subsidiaries transact business in various foreign currencies throughout Europe, Asia Pacific, Canada, Japan and Latin America. We face foreign currency exposure from the effect of fluctuating exchange rates on payables and receivables relating to transactions that are denominated in currencies other than our functional currency. These payables and receivables primarily arise from intercompany transactions. We hedge substantially all such exposures primarily through the use of forward contracts and options. We also face currency exposure that arises from translating the results of our worldwide operations, specifically sales, to the U.S. dollar at exchange rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of a reporting period. To partially protect against a reduction in the value of future sales resulting from adverse foreign exchange rate movements, we purchase forward contracts and options to hedge certain forecasted sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. Gains or losses on our derivative instruments are largely offset by the gains or losses on the underlying hedged transactions. Derivative financial instruments are recorded on our balance sheet at fair value. For foreign currency derivatives, market risk is determined by calculating the impact on fair value of an assumed change in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Fair values were estimated based upon observable inputs, specifically spot currency rates and foreign currency prices for similar assets and liabilities. With respect to the derivative instruments outstanding at September 30, 2009, a 10% appreciation of the U.S. dollar over a one year period would increase pre tax earnings by $85 million, while a 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar would decrease pre tax earnings by $85 million. Comparatively, considering our derivative instruments outstanding at September 30, 2008, a 10% appreciation of the U.S. dollar over a one year period would have increased pre tax earnings by $91 million, while a 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar would have decreased pre tax earnings by $91 million. These calculations do not reflect the impact of exchange gains or losses on the underlying transactions that would substantially offset the results of the derivative instruments. Our primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short term U.S. dollar interest rates. Our debt and interest bearing investments at September 30, 2009, are substantially all U.S. dollar denominated. Therefore, transaction and translation exposure relating to such instruments is minimal. When managing interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an appropriate balance between fixed and floating rate instruments. We may enter into interest rate swaps to help maintain this balance and manage debt and interest bearing investments in tandem, since these items have an offsetting impact on interest rate exposure. For interest rate derivative instruments, fair values are provided by the financial institutions that are counterparties to these arrangements. Market risk for these instruments is determined by calculating the impact to fair value of an assumed change in interest rates across all maturities. A change in interest rates on short term debt and interest bearing investments impacts our earnings and cash flow, but not the fair value of these instruments because of their limited duration. A change in interest rates on long term debt is assumed to impact the fair value of the debt but not our earnings or cash flow because the interest on such obligations is fixed. Based on our overall interest rate exposure at September 30, 2009 and 2008, a change of 10% in interest rates would not have a material effect on our earnings or cash flows over a one year period. An increase of 10% in interest rates would decrease the fair value of our long term debt and interest rate swaps at September 30, 2009 and 2008 by approximately $66 million and $35 million, respectively. A 10% decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of our long term debt and interest rate swaps at September 30, 2009 and 2008 by approximately $71 million and $39 million, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash generated from operations, along with available cash and cash equivalents, is expected to be sufficient to fund our normal operating needs, including capital expenditures, cash dividends and common stock repurchases in 2010. Net Cash Flows from Continuing Operating Activities Net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2009 was $1.7 billion, unchanged from 2008. Net income, excluding non cash items (primarily depreciation, amortization, share based compensation and deferred income taxes), was the primary source of operating cash flow during 2009. The change in operating assets and liabilities was a net use of cash and reflected higher levels of accounts receivable and inventory. Accounts receivable increased primarily due to higher sales in the fourth quarter of 2009, particularly in Europe. Inventory levels increased primarily due to a build up of inventory in anticipation of orders relating to the H1N1 pandemic and seasonal flu products. Net Cash Flows from Continuing Investing Activities Net cash used for continuing investing activities in 2009 was $1.1 billion, compared with $783 million in 2008. Capital expenditures were $591 million in 2009, compared with $602 million in 2008. Capital spending for the Medical, Diagnostics and Biosciences segments was $414 million, $102 million and $56 million, respectively, in 2009 and related primarily to manufacturing 19 Table of Contents capacity expansions. The increase in cash used for purchases of short term investments is primarily related to the temporary investment of proceeds from the long term debt issuance discussed below. The increase in cash used for capital software investment is primarily related to our enterprise wide program to upgrade our business information systems. In November 2009, we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of HandyLab, Inc., a company that develops and manufactures molecular diagnostic assays and automation platforms. The purchase price was $275 million in cash. For further discussion refer to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Net Cash Flows from Continuing Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities was $80 million in 2009, as compared with $586 million in 2008. In May 2009, we issued $500 million of 10 year, 5.00% Notes and $250 million of 30 year, 6.00% Notes, the proceeds of which were used to repay $200 million of 7.15% Notes, due October 1, 2009, to fund a discretionary pension contribution of $175 million in October 2009, and for other general corporate purposes. Total debt was $1.9 billion and $1.2 billion at September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Short term debt increased to 21% of total debt at year end, from 17% at the end of 2008. Floating rate debt was 32% of total debt at the end of 2009 and 35% at the end of 2008. Our weighted average cost of total debt at the end of 2009 was 4.9%, unchanged from the end of 2008. Debt to capitalization at year end increased to 26.8% compared to 18.8% last year primarily due to our debt issuance. We have in place a commercial paper borrowing program that is available to meet our short term financing needs, including working capital requirements. Borrowings outstanding under this program were $200 million at September 30, 2009. We maintain a $1 billion syndicated credit facility in order to provide backup support for our commercial paper program and for other general corporate purposes. This credit facility expires in December 2012 and includes a single financial covenant that requires BD to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio (ratio of earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization to interest expense) of not less than 5 to 1 for the most recent four consecutive fiscal quarters. On the last eight measurement dates, this ratio had ranged from 26 to 1 to 34 to 1. There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility at September 30, 2009. In addition, we have informal lines of credit outside the United States. At September 30, 2009, Standard and Poors rated our long term debt AA and our commercial paper A 1. Our Moodys ratings at September 30, 2009 were A2 for long term debt and P 1 for commercial paper. The outlook from both agencies was stable. We repurchased shares of our common stock for approximately $550 million in 2009 and $450 million in 2008. At September 30, 2009, approximately 7.6 million common shares remained available for purchase under a November 2008 Board of Directors authorization to repurchase up to 10 million common shares. BDs ability to generate cash flow from operations, issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long term capital on acceptable terms could be adversely affected in the event there was a material decline in the demand for BDs products, deterioration in BDs key financial ratios or credit ratings or other significantly unfavorable changes in conditions. While a deterioration in the Companys credit ratings would increase the costs associated with maintaining and borrowing under its existing credit arrangements, such a downgrade would not affect the Companys ability to draw on these credit facilities, nor would it result in an acceleration of the scheduled maturities of any outstanding debt. BD believes that given its debt ratings, its conservative financial management policies, its ability to generate cash flow and the non cyclical, geographically diversified nature of its businesses, the Company would have access to additional short term and long term capital should the need arise. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, we enter into contracts and commitments that obligate us to make payments in the future. The table below sets forth BDs significant contractual obligations and related scheduled payments: 20 Table of Contents 2011 to 2013 to 2015 and (Millions of dollars) Total 2010 2012 2014 Thereafter Short term debt $ 403 $ 403 $ $ $ Long term debt (A) 2,913 279 164 360 2,110 Operating leases 182 50 69 40 23 Purchase obligations (B) 456 319 118 11 8 Income tax audit settlements (C) 50 5 45 Total (D) $ 4,004 $ 1,056 $ 351 $ 411 $ 2,186 (A) Long term debt obligations include expected principal and interest obligations, including interest rate swaps. The interest rate forward curve at September 30, 2009 was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligation for variable rate debt instruments and swaps. (B) Purchase obligations are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital requirements. (C) Other than amounts anticipated to be settled in 2010, we cannot accurately forecast the timing of such settlement payments. Accordingly, the remaining amount of $45 million is reflected as payable in 2015 and thereafter. (D) Required funding obligations for 2010 relating to pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. 2008 Compared With 2007 Worldwide revenues in 2008 of $7.1 billion increased 13% from 2007 and reflected volume increases of approximately 7%, an estimated increase due to favorable foreign currency translation of 6% and price decreases of less than 1%. Medical Segment Medical revenues in 2008 of $3.7 billion increased $376 million, or 11%, over 2007, which includes an estimated impact of favorable foreign currency translation of 6 percentage points. The following is a summary of revenues by organizational unit: Estimated Foreign Total Exchange (Millions of dollars) 2008 2007 Change Impact Medical Surgical Systems $ 2,005 $ 1,864 8 % 4 % Diabetes Care 694 619 12 % 5 % Pharmaceutical Systems 942 792 19 % 10 % Ophthalmic Systems 79 69 15 % 7 % Total Revenues $ 3,720 $ 3,344 11 % 6 % Medical revenues reflected the growth of the Pharmaceutical Systems and Diabetes Care units, primarily outside of the United States, and the continued global conversion to safety engineered products. The Pharmaceutical Systems unit grew by 19%, driven by growth in Europe and Asia Pacific offset by lower growth in the United States when compared to fiscal 2007, which 21 Table of Contents reflected very high growth to support customer product launches. Revenue growth in the Diabetes Care unit of 12% was driven primarily by double digit growth in all regions outside of the United States. Revenue in the Medical Surgical Systems unit was primarily driven by growth in safety engineered products and prefilled flush syringes. Sales of safety engineered products increased 3% in the United States and 38% internationally. Medical operating income was $1.1 billion, or 28.3% of Medical revenues, in 2008, as compared with $1.0 billion, or 28.5%, of revenues in 2007. Operating income as a percentage of revenues reflects declines in gross margin from increased costs of raw materials, inventory write offs and declines in sales of products that have higher overall gross profit margins. These items more than offset favorable manufacturing efficiencies and controls on selling and administrative expenses. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of Medical revenues in 2008 declined to 17.8% of revenues from 18.7% of revenues in 2007, primarily due to tight spending controls. Research and development expenses in 2008 increased $8.0 million, or 7%, reflecting continued investment in the development of new products and platforms. Diagnostics Segment Diagnostics revenues in 2008 of $2.2 billion increased $255 million, or 13%, over 2007, which reflected an estimated favorable impact of foreign currency translation of about 5 percentage points. The following is a summary of revenues by organizational unit: Estimated Foreign Total Exchange (Millions of dollars) 2008 2007 Change Impact Preanalytical Systems $ 1,124 $ 1,007 12 % 5 % Diagnostic Systems 1,036 898 15 % 4 % Total Revenues $ 2,160 $ 1,905 13 % 5 % Revenue growth in the Preanalytical Systems unit was driven by the continued conversion to safety engineered products. Sales of safety engineered products reflected growth of 7% in the United States, driven by BD Vacutainer Push Button Blood Collection Set conversion activity, and 25% internationally. The Diagnostic Systems unit experienced growth in worldwide sales of its automated diagnostic platforms, including the molecular BD ProbeTec, BD Viper and BD Affirm systems, along with solid growth of its BD BACTEC blood culture and TB systems and the BD Phoenix ID/AST platform. In addition, revenues from TriPath grew $31 million to $119 million and revenues from GeneOhm grew $21 million to $42 million in 2008. Diagnostics operating income was $526 million, or 24.3% of Diagnostics revenues in 2008, compared with $343 million, or 18.0% of revenues in 2007. Segment operating income reflects the in process research and development charges of $115 million in 2007 related to the TriPath acquisition. The Diagnostics Segment experienced a slight improvement in gross profit margin from sales growth of products that have higher overall gross profit margins, in particular, safety engineered products and the BD ProbeTec and BD Viper systems, and favorable foreign exchange. These improvements were slightly offset by manufacturing start up costs and increases in raw material costs. See further discussion on gross profit margin below. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of Diagnostics revenues in 2008 was 22.0% compared with 22.4% in 2007 primarily due to tight spending controls. Research and development expense increased $16 million, or 14%, reflecting continued investment in the development of new products and platforms with particular emphasis on our molecular platforms. Biosciences Segment Biosciences revenues in 2008 of $1.2 billion increased $161 million, or 16%, over 2007, which reflected an estimated impact of favorable foreign currency translation of 6 percentage points. 22 Table of Contents The following is a summary of revenues by organizational unit: Estimated Foreign Total Exchange (Millions of dollars) 2008 2007 Change Impact Cell Analysis $ 901 $ 756 19 % 6 % Discovery Labware 295 278 6 % 5 % Total Revenues * $ 1,195 $ 1,034 16 % 6 % * Amounts may not add due to rounding. Revenue growth in the Cell Analysis unit reflected strong sales of instruments and flow cytometry reagents, driven by increased demand for research instruments and clinical reagents. Revenue growth in the Discovery Labware unit reflected reduced sales to a major bionutrients customer compared with 2007. Biosciences operating income was $334 million, or 27.9% of Biosciences revenues in 2008, compared with $259 million, or 25.0% in 2007. Segment operating income in 2007 included an in process research and development charge of $7 million relating to the Plasso acquisition. The increase in operating income, as a percentage of revenues, reflects gross profit improvement from relatively higher sales growth of products that have higher overall gross profit margins and the favorable impact of foreign currency translation. See further discussion on gross profit margin below. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of Biosciences revenues in 2008 was 23.0%, as compared with 24.0% in 2007, primarily due to tight spending controls. Research and development expense in 2008 increased $11 million, or 15%, reflecting spending on new product development and advanced technology. Geographic Revenues Revenues in the United States in 2008 of $3.1 billion increased 5%. U.S. sales of safety engineered devices grew 5% to $1.036 billion in 2008. Overall, growth was also led by increased sales of immunocytometry instruments and reagents, diabetes care products and infectious disease testing systems. International revenues in 2008 increased 19% to $4.0 billion, reflecting an estimated impact of favorable foreign currency translation of 11 percentage points. Volume growth was led by solid sales in Europe and certain Asia Pacific countries in 2008. International sales of safety engineered devices were approximately $534 million in 2008, compared with $414 million in 2007. Gross Profit Margin Gross profit margin decreased to 51.3% in 2008, from 51.7% in 2007. Gross profit margin in 2008 as compared with 2007 reflected an estimated 0.7% unfavorable impact resulting from increased costs of raw materials (primarily resins) and manufacturing start up costs, and an estimated 0.1% favorable impact of foreign currency translation. Increased sales of products with relatively higher margins and productivity gains were partially offset by, among other things, asset write offs, resulting in an estimated net favorable impact of 0.2%. Operating Expenses Selling and administrative expense was $1.7 billion, or 24.0% of revenues, in 2008 compared with $1.6 billion, or 25.2% of revenues in 2007. The increase in aggregate expenses for 2008 reflect an unfavorable foreign exchange impact of $80 million, increases in base spending of $24 million, and expenses of $9 million associated with TriPath, which was acquired in December 2006. Research and development (RD) expense in 2008 was $396 million, or 5.6% of revenues, compared with $360 million, or 5.7% of revenues, in 2007. The increase in RD expenditures includes spending for new programs in each of our segments, as previously discussed. 23 Table of Contents Operating Income Operating margin in 2008 was 21.7% of revenues, compared with 18.9% in 2007. Operating income of $1.2 billion in 2007 reflected $122 million of acquired in process RD charges, as further discussed above, which lowered 2007 operating margin by 190 basis points. Non Operating Expense and Income Interest expense was $36 million in 2008, compared with $46 million in 2007, reflecting a decline in interest rates. Interest income was $39 million in 2008, compared with $46 million in 2007. The favorable impact of higher investment levels was more than offset by investment losses in assets we hold to offset liabilities related to our deferred compensation plan. The related reduction in the deferred compensation liability was recorded as a reduction in selling and administrative expenses. Income Taxes The effective tax rate in 2008 was 27.5% compared with the 2007 rate of 29.0%. The 2007 rate reflected the non deductibility of the acquired in process RD charges of $122 million, which was partially offset by the impact of approximately 0.3% resulting from the retroactive reinstatement of the research and experimentation tax credit. Income and Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2008 were $1.1 billion and $4.42, respectively. Income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2007 were $842 million and $3.30, respectively. The acquired in process RD charges decreased income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2007 by $122 million and by $.48, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources Net Cash Flows from Continuing Operating Activities Net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2008 of $1.7 billion, increased $435 million over 2007. The increase in cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities reflects improvements in accounts receivable and inventory. Net Cash Flows from Continuing Investing Activities Net cash used for continuing investing activities in 2008 was $783 million, compared with $1.0 billion in 2007. Acquisitions of businesses represented the net cash paid for the Cytopeia acquisition in 2008 and for the TriPath acquisition in 2007. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further discussion on acquisitions. Capital expenditures were $602 million in 2008, compared with $556 million in 2007. Medical capital spending of $378 million and Diagnostics capital spending of $124 million in 2008 related primarily to various capacity expansions. Biosciences capital spending of $83 million in 2008 included spending on manufacturing capacity expansions. Net Cash Flows from Continuing Financing Activities Net cash used for financing activities was $586 million in 2008, as compared with $726 million in 2007, and included the repurchase of shares of our common stock for approximately $450 million in both years. Total debt was $1.2 billion at both September 30, 2008 and 2007. Short term debt decreased to 17% of total debt at year end, from 18% at the end of 2007. Floating rate debt was 35% of total debt at the end of 2008 and 36% at the end of 2007. Our weighted average cost of total debt at the end of 2008 was 4.9%, down from 5.7% at the end of 2007. Debt to capitalization at year end improved to 18.8% from 20.9% last year. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex and, consequently, actual results could differ from those estimates. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the 24 Table of Contents carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. For any given estimate or assumption made by management, it is possible that other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Actual results that differ from managements estimates could have an unfavorable effect on our consolidated financial statements. Management believes the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Revenue from product sales is typically recognized when title and risk of loss pass to the customer. However, we recognize revenue for certain instruments sold from the Biosciences segment upon installation at a customers site, as installation of these instruments is considered a significant post delivery obligation. In addition, for certain sales arrangements, primarily in the U.S., with multiple deliverables, revenue and cost of products sold are recognized at the completion of each deliverable: shipment, installation and training. These sales agreements are divided into separate units of accounting and revenue is recognized upon the completion of each deliverable based on the relative fair values of items delivered. Fair values are generally determined based on sales of the individual deliverables to other third parties. BDs domestic businesses sell products primarily to distributors who resell the products to end user customers. We provide rebates to distributors that sell to end user customers at prices determined under a contract between BD and the end user customer. Provisions for rebates, as well as sales discounts and returns, are accounted for as a reduction of revenues when revenue is recognized. Impairment of Assets Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are subject to impairment reviews at least annually, or whenever indicators of impairment arise. Potential impairment is identified by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value. At September 30, 2009, there were no reporting units that were deemed to be at risk of failing the goodwill impairment test. Intangible assets other than goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets and other long lived assets are reviewed for impairment when impairment indicators are present. Impairment reviews are based on a cash flow approach that requires significant management judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, appropriate discount rates and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with BDs business plans. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair value of the asset, and potentially result in different impacts to BDs results of operations. Actual results may differ from managements estimates. Investments We hold equity interests in companies having operations or technology in areas within or adjacent to BDs strategic focus. For investments in companies that are publicly traded, market prices are available. However, for investments in companies that are not publicly traded, fair value is difficult to determine. We write down an investment when management believes an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary. Future adverse changes in market conditions or poor operating results of the underlying investments could result in an inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby possibly requiring impairment charges in the future. Tax Valuation Allowances BD maintains valuation allowances where it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Changes in valuation allowances are included in our tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, management evaluates factors such as prior earnings history, expected future earnings, carry back and carry forward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset. Contingencies We are involved, both as a plaintiff and a defendant, in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, including, without limitation, product liability, antitrust and environmental matters, as further discussed in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. We establish accruals to the extent probable future losses are estimable (in the case of environmental matters, without considering possible third party recoveries). A determination of the amount of accruals, if any, for these contingencies is made after careful analysis of each individual issue and, when appropriate, is developed after consultation with outside counsel. The accruals may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in our strategy in dealing with these matters. Given the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of the litigation to which we are a party. In view of these uncertainties, we could incur 25 Table of Contents charges in excess of any currently established accruals and, to the extent available, excess liability insurance. Accordingly, in the opinion of management, any such future charges, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on BDs consolidated results of operations and consolidated net cash flows. Benefit Plans We have significant net pension and other postretirement benefit costs that are measured using actuarial valuations. Pension benefit costs include assumptions for the discount rate and expected return on plan assets. Other postretirement benefit plan costs include assumptions for the discount rate and healthcare cost trend rates. These assumptions have a significant effect on the amounts reported. In addition to the analysis below, see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional discussion. The discount rate is selected each year based on investment grade bonds and other factors as of the measurement date (September 30). For the U.S. pension plan, we used a discount rate of 5.90% as of September 30, 2009, which was based on an actuarially determined, company specific yield curve. The rate selected is used to measure liabilities as of the measurement date and for calculating the following years pension expense. The expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption, although reviewed each year, is changed less frequently due to the long term nature of the assumption. This assumption does not impact the measurement of assets or liabilities as of the measurement date; rather, it is used only in the calculation of pension expense. To determine the expected long term rate of return on pension plan assets, we consider many factors, including our historical assumptions compared with actual results; benchmark data; expected returns on various plan asset classes, as well as current and expected asset allocations. At September 30, 2009, we used a long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption of 8.00% for the U.S. pension plan. We believe our discount rate and expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumptions are appropriate based upon the above factors. Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions for our U.S. pension and other postretirement plans are as follows: Discount rate A change of plus (minus) 25 basis points, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $6 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on the total U.S. net pension and other postretirement benefit plan cost. Expected return on plan assets A change of plus (minus) 25 basis points, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $2 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on U.S. pension plan cost. Share Based Compensation Compensation cost relating to share based payment transactions is recognized in net income using a fair value measurement method. All share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, are recognized in the statement of operations as compensation expense (based on their fair values) over the vesting period of the awards. We determine the fair value of certain share based awards using a lattice based binomial option valuation model that incorporates certain assumptions, such as the risk free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividend yield and expected life of the options. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional discussion. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements BD and its representatives may from time to time make certain forward looking statements in publicly released materials, both written and oral, including statements contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases and our reports to shareholders. Forward looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as plan, expect, believe, intend, will, anticipate, estimate and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among other things, discussions of future operations and financial performance, as well as our strategy for growth, product development, regulatory approvals, market position and expenditures. All statements that address operating performance or events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future including statements relating to volume growth, sales and earnings per share growth, cash flows or uses, and statements expressing views about future operating results are forward looking statements. Forward looking statements are based on current expectations of future events. The forward looking statements are, and will be, based on managements then current views and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance, and speak only as of their dates. Investors should realize that if underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from our expectations and projections. Investors are therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward looking statements. Furthermore, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements after the date they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events and developments or otherwise, except as required by applicable law or regulations. 26 Table of Contents The following are some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward looking statements. The current economic downturn and continued instability in the global financial markets and the potential adverse effect on liquidity and capital resources for BD or its customers and suppliers, the cost of operating our business, the demand for our products and services, or the ability to produce our products. This includes the impact on developing countries and their demand for our products. The effects, if any, of healthcare reform in the U.S., including various proposals that, if enacted, would impose an excise tax on medical device manufacturers such as BD. Other legislative or administrative reforms in the U.S. or abroad could also reduce reimbursement rates, result in increased pricing pressures or otherwise adversely affect BDs business. Changes in domestic and foreign healthcare industry practices that result in increased pricing pressures, including the continued consolidation among healthcare providers and trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment. Regional, national and foreign economic factors, including inflation, deflation and fluctuations in interest rates and, in particular, foreign currency exchange rates and the potential effect of such fluctuations on revenues, expenses and resulting margins, as well as competition in certain markets. The effects of natural disasters, including the current influenza pandemic and other pandemic diseases, earthquakes, fire, or the effects of climate change on our ability to manufacture our products, particularly where production of a product line is concentrated in one or more plants, or on our ability to source components from suppliers that are needed for such manufacturing. Fluctuations in the cost and availability of oil based resins and other raw materials, as well as certain sub assemblies and finished goods, and the ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships (particularly with respect to sole source suppliers) and the potential adverse effects of any disruption in the availability of such items. We operate in a highly competitive environment. New product introductions by our current or future competitors (for example, new forms of drug delivery) could adversely affect our ability to compete in the global market. Patents attained by competitors, particularly as patents on our products expire, may also adversely impact our competitive position. Certain competitors have established manufacturing sites or have contracted with suppliers in low cost manufacturing locations as a means to lower their costs. New entrants may also appear. Difficulties inherent in product development, including the potential inability to successfully continue technological innovation, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals in the United States and abroad, obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement for new products, or gain and maintain market approval of products, as well as the possibility of encountering infringement claims by competitors with respect to patent or other intellectual property rights, all of which can preclude or delay commercialization of a product. We sell certain products to pharmaceutical companies that are used to manufacture, or are sold with, products by such companies. As a result, fluctuations in demand for the products of these pharmaceutical companies could adversely affect our operating results. The effects, if any, of governmental and media activities regarding the business practices of group purchasing organizations, which negotiate product prices on behalf of their member hospitals with BD and other suppliers. Our ability to obtain the anticipated benefits of restructuring programs, if any, that we may undertake. Our ability to implement the upgrade of our enterprise resource planning system. Any delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our upgrade could adversely affect our business. Adoption of, or changes in, government laws and regulations affecting domestic and foreign operations, including those relating to trade, monetary and fiscal policies, taxation (including tax reforms that could adversely impact multinational corporations), environmental matters, sales practices, price controls, licensing and regulatory approval of new products, regulatory requirements for products in the postmarketing phase, or changes in enforcement practices with respect to any such laws and regulations. In particular, environmental laws, particularly with respect to the emission of greenhouse gases, are becoming more stringent throughout the world, which may increase our costs of operations or necessitate changes in our manufacturing plants or processes. Fluctuations in U.S. and international governmental funding and policies for life sciences research. 27 Table of Contents Pending and potential litigation or other proceedings adverse to BD, including antitrust claims, product liability claims, patent infringement claims, and the availability or collectibility of insurance relating to any such claims. The effects of adverse media exposure or other publicity regarding BDs business or operations. Our ability to achieve the projected level or mix of product sales. Our earnings forecasts are generated based on such projected volumes and sales of many product types, some of which are more profitable than others. The effect of market fluctuations on the value of assets in BDs pension plans and the possibility that BD may need to make additional contributions to the plans as a result of any decline in the value of such assets. Product efficacy or safety concerns resulting in product recalls, regulatory action on the part of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (or foreign counterparts) or declining sales. Political conditions in international markets, including civil unrest, terrorist activity, governmental changes, restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across borders and expropriation of assets by a government. Our ability to penetrate developing and emerging markets, which also depends on economic and political conditions, and how well we are able to acquire or form strategic business alliances with local companies and make necessary infrastructure enhancements to production facilities, distribution networks, sales equipment and technology. The impact of business combinations, including acquisitions and divestitures, and our ability to successfully integrate any business we may acquire. Issuance of new or revised accounting standards by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the Securities and Exchange Commission. The foregoing list sets forth many, but not all, of the factors that could impact our ability to achieve results described in any forward looking statements. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The information required by this item is included in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in Notes 1, 10 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary data, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
