Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. FINANCIAL REVIEW Company Overview Description of the Company and Business Segments Becton, Dickinson and Company (BD) is a global medical technology company engaged principally in the development, manufacture and sale of medical devices, instrument systems and reagents used by healthcare institutions, life science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry and the general public. Our business consists of three worldwide business segments BD Medical (Medical), BD Diagnostics (Diagnostics) and BD Biosciences (Biosciences). Our products are marketed in the United States and internationally through independent distribution channels and directly to end users by BD and independent sales representatives. References to years throughout this discussion relate to our fiscal years, which end on September 30. Strategic Objectives BD remains focused on delivering sustainable growth and shareholder value, while making appropriate investments for the future. BD management operates the business consistent with the following core strategies: To increase revenue growth by focusing on our core products that deliver greater benefits to patients, healthcare workers and researchers; To increase investment in research and development for platform extensions and innovative new products; To make significant investments in growing our operations in emerging markets; To improve operating effectiveness and balance sheet productivity; To drive an efficient capital structure and strong shareholder returns. Our strategy focuses on four specific areas within healthcare and life sciences: Enabling safer, simpler and more effective parenteral drug delivery; Improving clinical outcomes through new, accurate and faster diagnostics; Providing tools and technologies to the research community that facilitates the understanding of the cell, cellular diagnostics and cell therapy; Enhancing disease management in diabetes, womens health and cancer, and infection control. We continue to strive to improve the efficiency of our capital structure and follow these guiding principles: To maintain an investment grade rating; To ensure access to the debt market for strategic opportunities; To optimize the cost of capital based on market conditions. In assessing the outcomes of these strategies as well as BDs financial condition and operating performance, management generally reviews quarterly forecast data, monthly actual results, segment sales and other similar information. We also consider trends related to certain key financial data, including gross profit margin, selling and administrative expense, investment in research and development, return on invested capital, and cash flows. Summary of Financial Results Worldwide revenues in 2012 of $7.7 billion increased 1.6% from the prior year and reflected estimated volume increases of 5.2%, which included growth from acquisitions of 1.1%, partially offset by estimated unfavorable foreign exchange translation of 2.7%, and estimated price decreases of 0.9%. Solid growth from our 19 Table of Contents Medical and Diagnostics segments was primarily driven by new product launches and growth from recent acquisitions, safety engineered products and emerging markets. Revenues in the United States in 2012 of $3.3 billion increased 1%, reflecting pricing pressures for certain Medical Surgical Systems products and an increasingly competitive market for microbiology products. In addition, Biosciences revenue in the U.S. declined due to reduced research funding and constrained demand for high end instruments. International revenues in 2012 of $4.4 billion increased 2%, which reflected an estimated impact of unfavorable foreign currency translation of 5%. International revenues for 2012 reflected growth from all segments, including growth attributable to emerging markets, as well as strong sales of safety engineered products. Sales in the United States of safety engineered devices grew 3% to $1.15 billion in 2012 from $1.12 billion in 2011. International sales of safety engineered devices were $834 million in 2012 compared with $755 million in 2011, or 10.5% growth which included an estimated 5% negative impact due to unfavorable foreign currency translation. International safety engineered device revenue growth continues to be driven by strong sales in the Medical Segment, with the largest growth in emerging markets, including China and Latin America. We continue to invest in research and development spending, geographic expansion, and new product promotions to drive further revenue and profit growth. Our ability to sustain our long term growth will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to expand our core business (including geographical expansion), develop innovative new products with higher gross profit margins across our business segments, and continue to improve operating efficiency and organizational effectiveness. The healthcare industry continues to face a challenging economic environment. The current economic conditions and other circumstances have resulted in pricing pressures for some of our products. As mentioned above, our Biosciences segment continues to be impacted by an uncertain research spending environment and lack of overall demand for instruments and research reagents. In other areas of our U.S. business, healthcare utilization is stable but constrained. Additionally, uncertainty in Europe due to continued macroeconomic challenges has resulted in constrained healthcare utilization in that region. In addition to the economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere, numerous other factors can affect our ability to achieve our goals including, without limitation, increased competition and healthcare reform initiatives. For example, the U.S. healthcare reform law contains certain tax provisions that will affect BD. The most significant impact is the medical device excise tax, which imposes a 2.3% tax on certain U.S. sales of medical devices, beginning in January 2013. We currently estimate that our fiscal 2013 excise tax (impacting only three quarters for fiscal year 2013) will be between $40 million to $50 million and will be recorded in selling and administrative expense. Our financial position remains strong, with cash flows from operating activities totaling $1.7 billion in 2012. At September 30, 2012, we had $2.2 billion in cash and equivalents and short term investments. Cash outflows relating to acquisitions included the purchase of KIESTRA Lab Automation BV (KIESTRA), a Netherlands based company that manufactures and sells innovative lab automation solutions for the microbiology lab, for $51 million, net of cash acquired. The Company also paid $52 million, net of cash acquired, for Sirigen Group Limited (Sirigen), a developer of unique polymer dyes that are used in flow cytometry. Capital expenditures were $487 million in 2012 as we continue to invest in capacity across our segments to support future growth. In November 2011, we issued $500 million of 5 year 1.75% notes and $1 billion of 10 year 3.125% notes, as discussed further below. Also, we continued to return value to our shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends. During 2012, we repurchased $1.5 billion of our common stock and paid cash dividends of $368 million. We face currency exposure each reporting period that arises from translating the results of our worldwide operations to the U.S. dollar at exchange rates that fluctuate from the beginning of such period. We evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a foreign currency neutral basis, which excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We calculate foreign currency neutral percentages by converting our current period local currency financial results using the prior period foreign currency exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. From time to time, we may purchase forward contracts and options to partially protect against adverse foreign exchange rate movements. Gains or losses on our derivative instruments are largely offset by the gains or losses on the underlying hedged transactions. We do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. For further discussion refer to Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 20 Table of Contents Divestiture In April 2012, we signed a definitive agreement to sell Biosciences Discovery Labware unit, excluding its Advanced Bioprocessing platform. The results of operations associated with this disposal group have been reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements of Income and Cash Flows and related disclosures. We completed the sale on October 31, 2012. Gross proceeds from the sale were approximately $728 million, subject to post closing adjustments, and we expect to record a gain on the sale within discontinued operations in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. See Note 10 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. Results of Continuing Operations Comparisons of income from continuing operations between 2012 and 2011 are affected by the following items that are reflected in our financial results: During the fourth quarter of 2012, we recorded a pre tax pension settlement charge of $20 million, or $0.06 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, primarily associated with a non cash charge due to lump sum benefit payments made from BDs U.S. supplemental pension plan. The charge also included settlement losses associated with certain foreign pension plans. For further discussion refer to Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded a pre tax, non cash charge of $9 million, or $0.03 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, resulting from the discontinuance of a research program within the Diagnostic Systems unit. Medical Segment Medical revenues in 2012 of $4.1 billion increased 2.1% over 2011, which reflected an estimated impact of unfavorable foreign currency translation of 3.0%. The following is a summary of Medical revenues by organizational unit: 2012 2011 TotalChange EstimatedForeignExchangeImpact (Millions of dollars) Medical Surgical Systems $ 2,105 $ 2,082 1.1 % (2.5 )% Diabetes Care 911 866 5.2 % (2.3 )% Pharmaceutical Systems 1,074 1,059 1.4 % (4.8 )% Total Revenues* $ 4,091 $ 4,007 2.1 % (3.0 )% * Amounts may not add due to rounding. Medical segment revenue growth, on a foreign currency neutral basis, reflected solid growth in all units. Medical Surgical Systems revenue reflected solid growth of international safety engineered product sales and growth from sales of the BD PhaSeal product resulting from the Carmel Pharma, AB (Carmel) acquisition that occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. Diabetes Care revenue growth reflected continued strong sales of pen needles, including sales of the BD Ultra Fine Nano. Pharmaceutical Systems revenue reflected the continued strong demand from companies producing biotech drugs and certain heparin products. Global sales of safety engineered products were $966 million, compared with $885 million in the prior year, and included an estimated $14 million unfavorable impact due to foreign currency translation. Medical operating income in 2012 was $1.2 billion, or 28.4% of Medical revenues, as compared with $1.2 billion, or 29.5%, of revenues in 2011. Gross profit margin was lower in the current year than in 2011 primarily due to amortization of intangibles associated with the Carmel acquisition, unfavorable pricing impacts on certain product lines and the unfavorable impact of decreased sales of products which have higher gross margins. These 21 Table of Contents unfavorable impacts on gross profit margin were partially offset by favorable foreign currency translation and lower manufacturing costs resulting from Project ReLoCo, a global, cross functional business initiative to drive sustained low cost capability, primarily benefitting Medical Surgical Systems. See further discussion on gross profit margin below. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of Medical revenues in 2012 increased to 17.7% of revenues from 17.5% of revenues in 2011, primarily due to increased spending for expansion in emerging markets and higher expenses resulting from the Carmel acquisition as compared with the prior years period, partially offset by continued spending controls and favorable foreign currency translation. Research and development expenses in 2012 increased $11 million, or 8%, and reflected continued investment in the development of new products and platforms, including new diabetes care and closed system transfer devices. Diagnostics Segment Diagnostics revenues in 2012 of $2.5 billion increased 2.3% over 2011, which reflected an estimated impact of unfavorable foreign currency translation of 2.2%. The following is a summary of Diagnostics revenues by organizational unit: 2012 2011 TotalChange EstimatedForeignExchangeImpact (Millions of dollars) Preanalytical Systems $ 1,301 $ 1,278 1.8 % (2.5 %) Diagnostic Systems 1,237 1,203 2.9 % (1.8 %) Total Revenues* $ 2,538 $ 2,480 2.3 % (2.2 %) * Amounts may not add due to rounding. Revenue growth in the Preanalytical Systems unit, on a foreign currency neutral basis, was driven by sales of safety engineered products. Sales of safety engineered products grew 2% in the United States, driven by BD VacutainerTM Push Button Blood Collection Set sales, and 4% internationally, which included an estimated unfavorable foreign exchange impact of 5%. The Diagnostic Systems unit experienced growth in worldwide sales of its automated diagnostic platforms, including the molecular BD ProbeTecTM, BD ViperTM and BD AffirmTM systems, along with solid growth of its BD BACTECTM blood culture and TB systems and the BD PhoenixTM ID/AST platform and its SurePath products. Diagnostics revenues in 2012 also reflected a favorable comparison to the prior year period due to new product launches and the KIESTRA acquisition. Diagnostics operating income in 2012 was $653 million, or 25.7% of Diagnostics revenues, compared with $636 million, or 25.7% of revenues, in 2011. Gross profit margin in the Diagnostics segment was down as compared to the prior year and reflected unfavorable foreign currency translation, higher raw material costs, and the unfavorable impact of decreased sales of products which have higher gross margins. See further discussion on gross profit margin below. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of Diagnostics revenues increased by 10 basis points in 2012 to 21.6%, primarily due to investments in emerging markets, partially offset by continued spending controls and favorable foreign currency translation. Research and development expense decreased $9 million, or 5% from 2011 reflecting a program termination in 2011. Current year R&D spending reflected our continued investment in the development of new products and platforms, including the BD MAX and new BD Viper platforms and menus. Biosciences Segment Biosciences revenues, which include the Cell Analysis unit and the Advanced Bioprocessing platform, of $1.1 billion in 2012 decreased 1.5% from 2011, and reflected an estimated impact of unfavorable foreign currency translation of 2.2%. Biosciences revenue growth, on a foreign currency neutral basis, was primarily driven by instrument and reagent sales in emerging markets, partially offset by declines in the U.S. due to constrained research spending. 22 Table of Contents Biosciences operating income in 2012 was $262 million, or 24.2% of Biosciences revenues, compared with $278 million, or 25.4%, in 2011. The Segments operating income in 2012 reflected a lower gross profit margin than 2011 primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation and amortization of capitalized software as well as intangibles associated with the 2011 acquisition of Accuri Cytometers, Inc. (Accuri). The Segments gross profit margin was also unfavorably impacted by increases in certain raw material costs. See further discussion on gross profit margin below. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of Biosciences revenues was 24.4% in 2012 as compared with 24.5% in 2011 and reflected continued spending controls partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency translation. Research and development spending was relatively flat to prior year and reflects spending on new products and platforms, including next generation cell sorters and analyzers. Geographic Revenues Revenues in the United States in 2012 of $3.3 billion increased 1%. Growth in U.S. Medical revenues reflected strong sales of Pharmaceutical Systems and Diabetes Care products, which were partially offset by pricing pressures for certain Medical Surgical Systems products. Diagnostic Systems revenue growth in the U.S. was unfavorably affected by an increasingly competitive market for microbiology products and weak sales from our GeneOhm healthcare associated infections (HAI) platform, also due to a challenging competitive environment. Biosciences revenues in the U.S. declined in the current year compared with the prior year due to reduced research funding, as we continue to experience constrained demand for high end instruments due to continued funding concerns in the pharmaceutical and biotech research markets as well as in the academic markets. International revenues in 2012 of $4.4 billion increased 2%, which reflected an estimated impact of unfavorable foreign currency translation of 5%. International revenues for 2012 reflected growth from all segments, including growth attributable to emerging markets, as well as strong sales of safety engineered products. Gross Profit Margin Gross profit margin was 51.3% in 2012, compared with 52.2% in 2011. The decrease in gross profit margin reflected the estimated net unfavorable impact of 70 basis points relating to operating performance, an estimated 10 basis points relating to unfavorable foreign currency translation and an estimated 10 basis points relating to pension settlements. Operating performance was adversely affected by an estimated 50 basis points due to the impact of decreased sales of products which have higher gross margins. Operating performance also reflected the estimated impacts of 50 basis points due to unfavorable pricing impacts on certain product lines as well as 20 basis points due to increases in certain raw material costs. Operating performance was also adversely impacted by approximately 10 basis points due to amortization of intangibles associated with recent acquisitions, approximately 20 basis points due to Biosciences software amortization and approximately 30 basis points due to other unfavorable one time impacts. The unfavorable impacts on operating performance for the current year were partially offset by an estimated 80 basis points due to lower manufacturing costs from continuous improvement projects, such as Project ReLoCo, and lower pension costs. Operating performance was also favorably impacted by approximately 30 basis points due to the change in useful lives of certain machinery and equipment assets. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 for additional discussion. Operating Expenses Selling and administrative expense in 2012 was $1.9 billion, or 25% of revenues, compared with $1.8 billion, or 24% of revenues in 2011. Aggregate expenses for 2012 reflected an increase in core spending of $105 million, primarily relating to expansion of our business in emerging markets, transactions costs relating to the KIESTRA acquisition and higher expenses resulting from the Carmel and KIESTRA acquisitions. Aggregate expenses for the current year also included increased spending of $23 million related to our global enterprise resource planning initiative to update our business information systems and $8 million related to pension settlements. Additionally, aggregate expenses in the current year included a $16 million increase in the deferred compensation plan liability, as further discussed below. These increases were partially offset by favorable foreign currency translation of $41 million and lower pension expense of $11 million. 23 Table of Contents Research and development (R&D) expense in 2012 was $472 million, or 6.1% of revenues, compared with $470 million, or 6.2% of revenues, in 2011. The increase in R&D expenditures includes spending for new products and platforms in each of our segments, as previously discussed. Current year expense also includes $2 million associated with pension settlements. R&D expense in 2011 included a non cash impairment charge of $9 million resulting from the discontinuance of a research program within the Diagnostic Systems unit. Non Operating Expense and Income Interest expense in 2012 was $135 million, compared with $84 million in 2011. The increase reflected higher levels of long term fixed rate debt, partially offset by lower average interest rates on this debt, as well as a reduction in the amount of capitalized interest. The reduction in capitalized interest was attributable to a lower average interest rate on the overall debt portfolio. Interest income was $50 million in 2012, compared with $43 million in 2011. The increase was largely the result of investment gains on assets related to our deferred compensation plan, offset partially by the impact of lower interest rates and lower investment levels in certain non U.S. locations. The offsetting movements in the deferred compensation plan liability were recorded in selling and administrative expenses. Income Taxes The effective tax rate in 2012 of 24.6% was lower compared with the 2011 rate of 25.8%. The 2012 rate reflected the favorable impact of various tax settlements in multiple jurisdictions, while 2011 reflected the favorable impact due to the timing of certain tax benefits resulting from the retroactive extension of the U.S. research tax credit and a European restructuring transaction. Income and Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2012 were $1.1 billion and $5.30, respectively. The charge related to pension settlements decreased income from continuing operations in 2012 by $13 million, or $0.06 per share. Earnings in 2012 also reflected an estimated overall net unfavorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations of $0.21 per share. Income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2011 were $1.2 billion and $5.31, respectively. The charge related to the discontinuance of a research program decreased income from continuing operations in 2011 by $6 million, or $0.03 per share. Financial Instrument Market Risk We selectively use financial instruments to manage market risk, primarily foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk relating to our ongoing business operations. The counterparties to these contracts are highly rated financial institutions. We do not enter into financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Foreign Exchange Risk BD and its subsidiaries transact business in various foreign currencies throughout Europe, Asia Pacific, Canada, Japan and Latin America. We face foreign currency exposure from the effect of fluctuating exchange rates on payables and receivables relating to transactions that are denominated in currencies other than our functional currency. These payables and receivables primarily arise from intercompany transactions. We hedge substantially all such exposures, primarily through the use of forward contracts. We also face currency exposure that arises from translating the results of our worldwide operations, including sales, to the U.S. dollar at exchange rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of a reporting period. From time to time, we purchase forward contracts and options to hedge certain forecasted sales that are denominated in foreign currencies in order to partially protect against a reduction in the value of future sales resulting from adverse foreign exchange rate movements. Gains or losses on our derivative instruments are largely offset by the gains or losses on the underlying hedged transactions. We did not enter into contracts to hedge cash flows in fiscal year 2012. 24 Table of Contents Derivative financial instruments are recorded on our balance sheet at fair value. For foreign currency derivatives, market risk is determined by calculating the impact on fair value of an assumed change in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Fair values were estimated based upon observable inputs, specifically spot currency rates and foreign currency prices for similar assets and liabilities. With respect to the derivative instruments outstanding at September 30, 2012, a 10% appreciation of the U.S. dollar over a one year period would decrease pre tax earnings by $8 million, while a 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar would increase pre tax earnings by $8 million. Comparatively, considering our derivative instruments outstanding at September 30, 2011, a 10% appreciation of the U.S. dollar over a one year period would have decreased pre tax earnings by $23 million, while a 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar would have increased pre tax earnings by $23 million. These calculations do not reflect the impact of exchange gains or losses on the underlying transactions that would substantially offset the results of the derivative instruments. Interest Rate Risk Our primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short term U.S. dollar interest rates. Our debt and interest bearing investments at September 30, 2012 are substantially all U.S. dollar denominated. Therefore, transaction and translation exposure relating to such instruments is minimal. When managing interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an appropriate balance between fixed and floating rate instruments. We may enter into interest rate swaps to help maintain this balance and manage debt and interest bearing investments in tandem, since these items have an offsetting impact on interest rate exposure. For interest rate derivative instruments, fair values are provided by the financial institutions that are counterparties to these arrangements. Market risk for these instruments is determined by calculating the impact to fair value of an assumed change in interest rates across all maturities. A change in interest rates on short term debt and interest bearing investments impacts our earnings and cash flow, but not the fair value of these instruments because of their limited duration. A change in interest rates on long term debt is assumed to impact the fair value of the debt, but not our earnings or cash flow because the interest on such obligations is fixed. Based on our overall interest rate exposure at September 30, 2012 and 2011, a change of 10% in interest rates would not have a material effect on our earnings or cash flows over a one year period. An increase of 10% in interest rates would decrease the aggregate fair value of our long term debt and related fair value hedges at September 30, 2012 and 2011 by approximately $109 million and $90 million, respectively. A 10% decrease in interest rates would increase the aggregate fair value of these same financial instruments at September 30, 2012 and 2011 by approximately $115 million and $96 million, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources Net Cash Flows from Continuing Operating Activities Net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2012 was $1.7 billion, compared with $1.6 billion in 2011. The current year change in operating assets and liabilities resulted in a net use of cash and primarily reflected higher levels of inventory and accounts receivables, substantially offset by lower levels of prepaid expenses. Net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2012 was reduced by changes in the pension obligation resulting primarily from a discretionary cash contribution of $100 million. An additional discretionary contribution of $100 million was made to the U.S. pension plan in October 2012. Net Cash Flows from Continuing Investing Activities Capital Expenditures Our investments in capital expenditures are focused on projects that enhance our cost structure and manufacturing capabilities, and support our strategy of geographic expansion with select investments in growing markets. Capital expenditures were $487 million in 2012, compared with $509 million in 2011. Capital spending for the Medical, Diagnostics and Biosciences segments in 2012 was $363 million, $101 million and $14 million, respectively, and related primarily to manufacturing capacity expansions. 25 Table of Contents Acquisitions of Businesses Cash outflows relating to acquisitions of $103 million in 2012 were comprised of $51 million relating to the KIESTRA acquisition and $52 million associated with the acquisition of Sirigen. Acquisitions of businesses of $492 million in 2011 were comprised of $287 million associated with Carmel and $205 million relating to Accuri. For further discussion, refer to Note 9 in the notes to consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. On June 29, 2012, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Safety Syringes, Inc., a privately held California based company that specializes in the development of anti needlestick devices for prefilled syringes. The acquisition, which is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, is expected to close by the end of the Companys first fiscal quarter of 2013. Net Cash Flows from Continuing Financing Activities Debt Issuances and Payments of Obligations On November 3, 2011, we issued $500 million of 5 year 1.75% Notes and $1 billion of 10 year 3.125% Notes. Short term debt increased to 9.7% of total debt at the end of 2012, from 8.6% at the end of 2011. Floating rate debt was 9.7% of total debt at the end of 2012 and 16% at the end of 2011. Our weighted average cost of total debt at the end of 2012 was 3.7%, down from 4.9% at the end of 2011. Debt to capitalization (ratio of total debt to the sum of total debt, shareholders equity and net non current deferred income tax liabilities) at September 30, 2012 was 49.7% compared with 35.8% at September 30, 2011. Repurchase of Common Stock We repurchased approximately 19.9 million shares of our common stock for $1.5 billion in 2012 and 18.4 million shares for $1.5 billion in 2011. A total of approximately 8.2 million common shares remain available for purchase at September 30, 2012 under the Board of Directors July 2011 repurchase authorization. We plan on share repurchases of approximately $500 million in 2013, subject to market conditions. Cash and Short term Investments At September 30, 2012, total worldwide cash and short term investments were $2.18 billion, of which $1.75 billion was held in jurisdictions outside of the United States. We regularly review the amount of cash and short term investments held outside the United States and currently intend to use most of such amounts to fund our international operations and their growth initiatives. However, if these amounts were moved out of these jurisdictions or repatriated to the United States, there could be tax consequences. Government Receivables Accounts receivable balances include sales to government owned or government supported healthcare facilities in several countries, which are subject to delays. Payment is dependent upon the financial stability and creditworthiness of those countries national economies. Deteriorating credit and economic conditions in parts of Western Europe, particularly in Italy and Spain, may continue to increase the average length of time it takes us to collect our accounts receivable in certain regions within these countries. Outstanding governmental receivable balances, net of reserves, in Italy and Spain at September 30, 2012 were $71 million and $43 million, respectively. We continually evaluate all governmental receivables for potential collection risks associated with the availability of government funding and reimbursement practices. We believe the current reserves related to all governmental receivables are adequate and that this concentration of credit risk will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position or liquidity. Credit Facilities We have in place a commercial paper borrowing program that is available to meet our short term financing needs, including working capital requirements. Borrowings outstanding under this program were $200 million at 26 Table of Contents September 30, 2012. During the third quarter, we established a $1 billion syndicated credit facility with an expiration date of May 2017, replacing a $1 billion facility due to expire in December 2012. This new credit facility, under which there were no borrowings outstanding at September 30, 2012, provides backup support for our commercial paper program and can also be used for other general corporate purposes. It includes a provision that enables BD, subject to additional commitments made by the lenders, to access up to an additional $500 million in financing through the facility, for a maximum aggregate commitment of $1.5 billion. The credit facility includes a single financial covenant that requires BD to maintain an interest expense coverage ratio (ratio of earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization to interest expense) of not less than 5 to 1 for the most recent four consecutive fiscal quarters. On the last eight measurement dates, this ratio has ranged from 13 to 1 to 26 to 1. In addition, we have informal lines of credit outside the United States. Access to Capital and Credit Ratings Our ability to generate cash flow from operations, issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long term capital on acceptable terms could be adversely affected in the event there was a material decline in the demand for our products, deterioration in our key financial ratios or credit ratings, or other significantly unfavorable changes in conditions. BDs credit ratings at September 30, 2012, which reflect an action by Moodys on September 12, 2012, that placed our ratings under review for downgrade, were as follows: Standard & Poors Moodys Ratings: Senior Unsecured Debt A+ A2 Commercial Paper A 1+ P 1 Outlook Stable Under review for downgrade On October 3, 2012, Moodys downgraded BDs Senior Unsecured Debt rating to A3 and lowered its Commercial Paper rating to Prime 2, while changing its outlook to Stable. While further deterioration in our credit ratings would increase the costs associated with maintaining and borrowing under our existing credit arrangements, such a downgrade would not affect our ability to draw on these credit facilities, nor would it result in an acceleration of the scheduled maturities of any outstanding debt. We believe that given our debt ratings, our conservative financial management policies, our ability to generate cash flow and the non cyclical, geographically diversified nature of our businesses, we would have access to additional short term and long term capital should the need arise. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, we enter into contracts and commitments that obligate us to make payments in the future. The table below sets forth BDs significant contractual obligations and related scheduled payments: Total 2013 2014 to2015 2016 to2017 2018 andThereafter (Millions of dollars) Short term debt $ 406 $ 406 $ $ $ Long term debt(A) 5,683 150 301 793 4,439 Operating leases 211 50 78 49 34 Purchase obligations(B) 506 295 155 56 Unrecognized tax benefits(C) Total (D) $ 6,806 $ 901 $ 534 $ 898 $ 4,473 (A) Long term debt obligations include expected principal and interest obligations. 27 Table of Contents (B) Purchase obligations are for purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational and capital requirements. (C) Unrecognized tax benefits at September 30, 2012 of $123 million were all long term in nature. Due to the uncertainty related to the timing of the reversal of these tax positions, the related liability has been excluded from the table. (D) Required funding obligations for 2013 relating to pension and other postretirement benefit plans are not expected to be material. In October 2012, a discretionary cash contribution of $100 million was made to the U.S. pension plan. 2011 Compared With 2010 Results of Continuing Operations Comparisons of income from continuing operations between 2011 and 2010 are affected by the following items that are reflected in our financial results: During the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded a pre tax non cash charge of $9 million, or $0.03 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, resulting from the discontinuance of a research program within the Diagnostics Systems unit. During the second quarter of 2010, we recorded a non cash charge of $9 million, or $0.04 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, related to the elimination of the employer deduction of the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy under the U.S. healthcare reform law. Medical Segment Medical revenues in 2011 of $4.0 billion increased 5.6% over 2010, which reflected an estimated impact of favorable foreign currency translation of 3.3%. The following is a summary of Medical revenues by organizational unit: 2011 2010 TotalChange EstimatedForeignExchangeImpact (Millions of dollars) Medical Surgical Systems $ 2,082 $ 2,010 3.6 % 3.2 % Diabetes Care 866 786 10.3 % 3.5 % Pharmaceutical Systems 1,059 1,001 5.8 % 3.4 % Total Revenues* $ 4,007 $ 3,796 5.6 % 3.3 % * Amounts may not add due to rounding. Revenue growth in the Medical Segment reflected strong growth of Pharmaceutical Systems and international safety engineered product sales. Revenues of safety engineered products increased 33.4% internationally, which included an estimated favorable foreign exchange impact of 9.7%. Revenue growth in the Pharmaceutical Systems unit was driven by double digit growth in the United States, Japan and Latin America. U.S. revenue growth in the Pharmaceutical Systems unit in 2011 was aided by strong sales to companies producing certain generic heparin products. Revenue growth in the Diabetes Care unit resulted primarily from continued strong growth in worldwide pen needle sales. Medical revenues in 2011 also reflected an unfavorable comparison to the prior year period that included strong sales related to the H1N1 flu pandemic primarily in the first half of the year. We estimate that this unfavorable comparison negatively impacted Medicals revenue growth rate by approximately 2.2 percentage points. Medical operating income in 2011 was $1.2 billion, or 29.5% of Medical revenues, as compared with $1.1 billion, or 29.5% of revenues, in 2010. Gross profit margin was higher in the current year than 2010 due to increased sales of products with relatively high gross margins as well as continued manufacturing productivity 28 Table of Contents and lower manufacturing start up costs. These favorable impacts on gross profit margin were partially offset by increases in certain raw material costs and higher pension costs allocated to the Segment. See further discussion on gross profit margin below. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of Medical revenues in 2011 increased to 17.5% of revenues from 17.3% of revenues in 2010, primarily due to the acquisition of Carmel and unfavorable foreign currency translation, partially offset by continued spending controls. Research and development expenses in 2011 increased $17 million, or 13%, and reflected continued investment in the development of new products and platforms, including new infusion therapy products and new pen needle introductions. Diagnostics Segment Diagnostics revenues in 2011 of $2.5 billion increased 7.0% over 2010, which reflected an estimated impact of favorable foreign currency translation of 3.1%. The following is a summary of Diagnostics revenues by organizational unit: 2011 2010 TotalChange EstimatedForeignExchangeImpact (Millions of dollars) Preanalytical Systems $ 1,278 $ 1,198 6.7 % 3.0 % Diagnostic Systems 1,203 1,121 7.3 % 3.1 % Total Revenues* $ 2,480 $ 2,319 7.0 % 3.1 % * Amounts may not add due to rounding. Revenue growth in the Preanalytical Systems unit was driven by sales of safety engineered products. Sales of safety engineered products grew 3% in the United States, driven by BD VacutainerTM Push Button Blood Collection Set sales, and 15% internationally, which included an estimated favorable foreign exchange impact of 7%. The Diagnostic Systems unit experienced growth in worldwide sales of its automated diagnostic platforms, including the molecular BD ProbeTecTM, BD ViperTM and BD AffirmTM systems, along with solid growth of its BD BACTECTM blood culture and TB systems and the BD PhoenixTM ID/AST platform and its HAI product offerings. Diagnostics revenues in 2011 also reflected an unfavorable comparison to the prior year period that included strong sales related to the flu pandemic in 2010. We estimate that this unfavorable comparison negatively impacted Diagnostics revenue growth rate by approximately 0.6 percentage points. Diagnostics operating income in 2011 was $636 million, or 25.7% of Diagnostics revenues, compared with $607 million, or 26.2% of revenues, in 2010. Gross profit margin in the Diagnostics segment was relatively flat as compared to the prior year and reflected favorable foreign currency translation, offset by higher raw material costs, primarily resin. See further discussion on gross profit margin below. Selling and administrative expense as a percentage of Diagnostics revenues increased by 30 basis points in 2011 to 21.5%, primarily due to investments in emerging markets and unfavorable foreign currency translation, partially offset by continued spending controls. Research and development expense increased $13 million, or 9% over 2010, and reflected continued investment in the development of new products and platforms, including the BD MAX and new BD Viper platforms and menus. Biosciences Segment Biosciences revenues in 2011 of $1.1 billion increased 8.6%, over 2010, which reflected an estimated impact of favorable foreign currency translation of 3.5%. Biosciences revenue growth was primarily driven by instrument and reagent sales. Revenue growth in 2011 was also negatively impacted by approximately 3.6 percentage points due to an unfavorable comparison to 2010, which included strong sales from U.S. stimulus spending and supplemental spending in Japan. 29 Table of Contents Biosciences operating income in 2011 was $278 million, or 25.4% of Biosciences revenues, compared with $260 million, or 25.7%, in 2010. The Segments operating income in 2011 reflected a higher gross profit margin than 2010 primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign currency translation and higher margins on service revenue. These favorable variances from the prior year were partially offset by amortization of intangibles associated with the acquisition of Accuri and increases in certain raw material costs. See further discussion on gross profit margin below. Selling and administrative expense was 24.5% in 2011 as compared with 24.3% in 2010 and reflected unfavorable foreign currency translation, partially offset by continued spending controls. Research and development spending increased $13 million, or 14%, and reflected spending on new products and platforms, including the BD FACS Verse Analyzer and other next generation cell sorters and analyzers. Geographic Revenues Revenues in the United States in 2011 of $3.2 billion increased 2%. U.S. revenue growth was negatively impacted by approximately 2.4 percentage points due to an unfavorable comparison to 2010, which included strong sales related to the flu pandemic and stimulus spending. The Medical segment experienced strong sales of Pharmaceutical Systems products in the U.S. Diagnostics revenue growth was driven by solid growth in infectious disease and molecular diagnostic platforms. International revenues in 2011 of $4.3 billion increased 10%, which reflected an estimated impact of favorable foreign currency translation of 5.8%. Overall, international growth was driven by sales in emerging markets, with especially strong performance in Asia Pacific and Latin America, which was partially offset by slower growth in Western Europe. International revenue growth was negatively impacted by about 1.5 percentage points due to an unfavorable comparison to 2010, which included strong sales related to the H1N1 flu pandemic and supplemental spending in Japan. Revenue growth in the Medical Segment was driven by strong sales of safety engineered products. Diagnostic revenue growth reflected solid growth of Womens Health and Cancer products within the Diagnostic Systems unit, as governments are expanding programs for cervical cancer screening in developing markets. Biosciences revenue growth was driven by instrument and reagent sales, primarily in emerging markets. Gross Profit Margin Gross profit margin was 52.2% in 2011, compared with 51.9% in 2010. Gross profit margin in 2011 reflected estimated favorable impacts of 20 basis points relating to foreign currency translation and 20 basis points relating to operating performance. The favorable impact from operating performance resulted from increased sales of products with relatively higher gross margins, increased productivity and lower manufacturing start up costs, which were partially offset by increases in resin and other raw material costs and higher pension costs. Gross profit margin in 2011 was also unfavorably impacted by 10 basis points as a result of the amortization of intangibles associated with the Accuri acquisition. Operating Expenses Selling and administrative expense in 2011 of $1.8 billion, or 24.0% of revenues, increased $133 million, or 8%, compared with $1.7 billion, or 23.7% of revenues, in 2010. Aggregate expenses reflected $46 million of unfavorable foreign exchange and increases in core spending of $55 million, reflecting funding to expand our business in emerging markets and higher shipping costs. Aggregate expenses also reflected a $6 million charge to bad debt expense related to European receivables, increased pension costs of $13 million and higher acquisition related expenses of $6 million. Aggregate expenses for the year also included increased spending of $14 million related to our global enterprise resource planning initiative to update our business information systems. These increases were partially offset by a $7 million decrease in the deferred compensation plan liability, as further discussed below. Research and development (R&D) expense in 2011 was $470 million, or 6.2% of revenues, compared with $423 million, or 5.9% of revenues, in 2010. The increase in R&D expenditures includes spending for new products and platforms in each of our segments, as previously discussed. R&D expense also included a non cash impairment charge of $9 million in 2011 resulting from the discontinuance of a research program within the Diagnostic Systems unit. 30 Table of Contents Non Operating Expense and Income Interest expense in 2011 was $84 million, compared with $51 million in 2010. This increase reflected higher levels of long term fixed rate debt, partially offset by lower average interest rates on the overall long term debt portfolio. Interest income was $43 million in 2011, compared with $35 million in 2010. This increase resulted from higher interest rates and levels of investments outside the United States, net of investment losses on assets related to our deferred compensation plan. The related decrease in the deferred compensation plan liability was recorded as a decrease in selling and administrative expenses. Income Taxes The effective tax rate in 2011 of 25.8% was lower compared with the 2010 rate of 28.8% and reflected a favorable impact of 1.4 percentage points due to certain tax benefits. These benefits resulted from the retroactive extension of the U.S. research tax credit as well as a European restructuring transaction. In addition, the 2010 rate was unfavorably impacted by 0.6 percentage points from the expiration of the R&D tax credit, and by 0.5 percentage points from the non cash charge related to healthcare reform impacting Medicare Part D reimbursements. Income and Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations Income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2011 were $1.2 billion and $5.31, respectively. The charge related to the discontinuance of a research program decreased income from continuing operations in 2011 by $6 million, or $0.03 per share. Earnings in 2011 also reflected an overall net favorable impact of foreign currency fluctuations of $0.28 per share. Income from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2010 were $1.1 billion and $4.64, respectively. The charge related to healthcare reform decreased income from continuing operations in 2010 by $9 million, or $0.04 per share. Liquidity and Capital Resources Net Cash Flows from Continuing Operating Activities Net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2011 was $1.6 billion, unchanged from 2010. The change in operating assets and liabilities resulted from a net use of cash and primarily reflected higher levels of inventory and prepaid expenses. Net cash provided by continuing operating activities in 2010 was reduced by discretionary cash contributions to the U.S. pension plan of $175 million. Net Cash Flows from Continuing Investing Activities Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures were $509 million in 2011, compared with $531 million in 2010. Capital spending for the Medical, Diagnostics and Biosciences segments in 2011 was $367 million, $93 million and $31 million, respectively, and related primarily to manufacturing capacity expansions. Acquisitions of Businesses Cash outflows relating to acquisitions of $492 million in 2011 were comprised of $287 million associated with the acquisition of Carmel and $205 million associated with the acquisition of Accuri. Cash outflows relating to acquisitions of $281 million in 2010 primarily related to $275 million associated with the acquisition of HandyLab, Inc. For further discussion, refer to Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 31 Table of Contents Divestiture of Businesses On July 30, 2010, the Company sold the Ophthalmic Systems unit and the surgical blades platform. The sale of the critical care and extended dwell catheter product platforms was completed on September 30, 2010. Cash proceeds received in the fourth quarter 2010 from these divestitures were $260 million, net of working capital adjustments. For further discussion refer to Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Net Cash Flows from Continuing Financing Activities Debt Issuances and Payments of Obligations On November 8, 2010, we issued $700 million of 10 year 3.25% Notes and $300 million of 30 year 5.00% Notes. Short term debt decreased to 8.6% of total debt at the end of 2011, from 12% at the end of 2010. Floating rate debt was 16% of total debt at the end of 2011 and 24% at the end of 2010. Our weighted average cost of total debt at the end of 2011 was 4.9%, up from 4.6% at the end of 2010. Debt to capitalization (ratio of total debt to the sum of total debt, shareholders equity and net non current deferred income tax liabilities) at September 30, 2011 was 35.8%, compared with 23.7% at September 30, 2010. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex and, consequently, actual results could differ from those estimates. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. For any given estimate or assumption made by management, it is possible that other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Actual results that differ from managements estimates could have an unfavorable effect on our consolidated financial statements. Management believes the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition Revenue from product sales is typically recognized when all of the following criteria have been met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; product price is fixed or determinable; and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. For certain instruments sold from the Biosciences segment, we recognize revenue upon installation at a customers site, as installation of these instruments is considered a significant post delivery obligation. For certain sales arrangements, primarily in the U.S., with multiple deliverables, revenue and cost of products sold are recognized at the completion of each deliverable: shipment, installation and training. These sales agreements are divided into separate units of accounting and revenue is recognized upon the completion of each deliverable based on its relative selling price. The relative selling prices of installation and training are determined based on the prices at which these deliverables would be regularly sold on a standalone basis. The relative selling prices of instruments are based on estimated selling prices. These estimates represent the quoted sales contract price in each arrangement. BDs domestic businesses sell products primarily to distributors who resell the products to end user customers. We provide rebates to distributors that sell to end user customers at prices determined under a contract between BD and the end user customer. Provisions for rebates, which are based on historical information for all rebates that have not yet been processed, as well as sales discounts and returns, are accounted for as a reduction of revenues when revenue is recognized. 32 Table of Contents Impairment of Assets Goodwill and in process research and development assets are subject to impairment reviews at least annually, or whenever indicators of impairment arise. Intangible assets with finite lives, including core and developed technology, and other long lived assets, are periodically reviewed for impairment when impairment indicators are present. We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component. Our reporting units generally represent one level below reporting segments and we aggregate components within an operating segment that have similar economic characteristics. Potential impairment of goodwill is identified by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value. Our annual goodwill impairment test for 2012 did not result in any impairment charges, as the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. We generally use the income approach to derive the fair value for impairment assessments. This approach calculates fair value by estimating future cash flows attributable to the assets and then discounting these cash flows to a present value using a risk adjusted discount rate. We selected this method because we believe the income approach most appropriately measures our income producing assets. This approach requires significant management judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, appropriate discount rates and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with BDs business plans. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair value of the asset, and potentially result in different impacts to BDs results of operations. Actual results may differ from managements estimates. Income Taxes BD maintains valuation allowances where it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Changes in valuation allowances are included in our tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, management evaluates factors such as prior earnings history, expected future earnings, carry back and carry forward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset. BD conducts business and files tax returns in numerous countries and currently has tax audits in progress in a number of tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, we record accruals for uncertain tax positions based on the technical support for the positions, our past audit experience with similar situations, and the potential interest and penalties related to the matters. BDs effective tax rate in any given period could be impacted if, upon resolution with taxing authorities, we prevailed in positions for which reserves have been established, or we were required to pay amounts in excess of established reserves. BD has reviewed its needs in the U.S. for possible repatriation of undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries and, with exception for certain countries, continues to invest foreign subsidiaries earnings outside of the U.S. to fund foreign investments or meet foreign working capital and property, plant and equipment expenditure needs. Deferred taxes are not provided on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely reinvested. At September 30, 2012, the cumulative amount of such undistributed earnings indefinitely reinvested outside the United States was $4.4 billion. The determination of the amount of the unrecognized deferred tax liability related to the undistributed earnings is not practicable because of the complexities associated with its hypothetical calculation. Contingencies We are involved, both as a plaintiff and a defendant, in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, including, without limitation, product liability, antitrust and environmental matters, as further discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges of probable losses. We establish accruals to the extent probable future losses are estimable (in the case of environmental matters, without considering possible third party recoveries). A determination of the 33 Table of Contents amount of accruals, if any, for these contingencies is made after careful analysis of each individual issue and, when appropriate, is developed after consultation with outside counsel. The accruals may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in our strategy in dealing with these matters. Given the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of the litigation to which we are a party. In view of these uncertainties, we could incur charges in excess of any currently established accruals and, to the extent available, excess liability insurance. In the opinion of management, any such future charges, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on BDs consolidated results of operations and consolidated net cash flows. Benefit Plans We have significant net pension and other postretirement benefit costs that are measured using actuarial valuations. Pension benefit costs include assumptions for the discount rate and expected return on plan assets. Other postretirement benefit plan costs include assumptions for the discount rate and healthcare cost trend rates. These assumptions have a significant effect on the amounts reported. In addition to the analysis below, see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional discussion. The discount rate is selected each year based on investment grade bonds and other factors as of the measurement date (September 30). For the U.S. pension plan, we will use a discount rate of 3.9% for 2013, which was based on an actuarially determined, company specific yield curve. The rate selected is used to measure liabilities as of the measurement date and for calculating the following years pension expense. The expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption, although reviewed each year, changes less frequently due to the long term nature of the assumption. This assumption does not impact the measurement of assets or liabilities as of the measurement date; rather, it is used only in the calculation of pension expense. To determine the expected long term rate of return on pension plan assets, we consider many factors, including our historical assumptions compared with actual results; benchmark data; expected returns on various plan asset classes, as well as current and expected asset allocations. We will use a long term expected rate of return on plan assets assumption of 7.75% for the U.S. pension plan in 2013. We believe our discount rate and expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumptions are appropriate based upon the above factors. Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions for our U.S. pension and other postretirement plans are as follows: Discount rate A change of plus (minus) 25 basis points, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $5 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on the total U.S. net pension and other postretirement benefit plan cost. Expected return on plan assets A change of plus (minus) 25 basis points, with other assumptions held constant, would have an estimated $3 million favorable (unfavorable) impact on U.S. pension plan cost. Share Based Compensation Compensation cost relating to share based payment transactions is recognized in net income using a fair value measurement method. All share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, are recognized in the statement of operations as compensation expense (based on their fair values) over the vesting period of the awards. We determine the fair value of certain share based awards using a lattice based binomial option valuation model that incorporates certain assumptions, such as the risk free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividend yield and expected life of the options. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional discussion. 34 Table of Contents Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements BD and its representatives may from time to time make certain forward looking statements in publicly released materials, both written and oral, including statements contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, and our reports to shareholders. Forward looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as plan, expect, believe, intend, will, anticipate, estimate and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among other things, discussions of future operations and financial performance, as well as our strategy for growth, product development, regulatory approvals, market position and expenditures. All statements that address operating performance or events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future including statements relating to volume growth, sales and earnings per share growth, cash flows or uses, and statements expressing views about future operating results are forward looking statements. Forward looking statements are based on current expectations of future events. The forward looking statements are, and will be, based on managements then current views and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance, and speak only as of their dates. Investors should realize that if underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from our expectations and projections. Investors are therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward looking statements. Furthermore, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements after the date they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events and developments or otherwise, except as required by applicable law or regulations. The following are some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward looking statements. For further discussion of certain of these factors, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. The current conditions in the global economy and financial markets, and the potential adverse effect on the cost of operating our business, the demand for our products and services, prices for our products and services due to increases in pricing pressure, or our ability to produce our products, including the impact on developing countries. Also, the increase in sovereign debt during the financial crisis as a result of governmental intervention in the world economy poses additional risks to the global financial system and economic recovery. In particular, deficit reduction efforts or other adverse changes in the availability of government funding for healthcare and research, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, could further weaken demand for our products and result in additional pricing pressures, as well as create potential collection risks associated with such sales. In that regard, in the U.S., automatic spending cuts, or sequestration, that could affect government healthcare spending and research funding are set to go into effect January 2013 in the absence of further legislative action. The consequences of the healthcare reform in the United States, which implemented an excise tax on U.S. sales of certain medical devices, and which could result in reduced demand for our products, increased pricing pressures or otherwise adversely affect BDs business. Future healthcare reform in the countries in which we do business may also involve changes in government pricing and reimbursement policies or other cost containment reforms. Changes in domestic and foreign healthcare industry practices that result in a reduction in procedures using our products or increased pricing pressures, including the continued consolidation among healthcare providers and trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment (including changes in reimbursement practices by third party payors). Our ability to penetrate developing and emerging markets, which depends on local economic and political conditions and how well we are able to acquire or form strategic business alliances with local companies and make necessary infrastructure enhancements to production facilities, distribution networks, sales equipment and technology. Regional, national and foreign economic factors, including inflation, deflation, fluctuations in interest rates and, in particular, foreign currency exchange rates, and the potential effect on our revenues, expenses, margins and credit ratings. 35 Table of Contents New or changing laws and regulations affecting our domestic and foreign operations, or changes in enforcement practices, including laws relating to trade, monetary and fiscal policies, taxation (including tax reforms that could adversely impact multinational corporations), sales practices, price controls and licensing and regulatory requirements for new products and products in the postmarketing phase. In particular, the U.S. and other countries may impose new requirements regarding registration, labeling or prohibited materials that may require us to re register products already on the market or otherwise impact our ability to market our products. Environmental laws, particularly with respect to the emission of greenhouse gases, are also becoming more stringent throughout the world, which may increase our costs of operations or necessitate changes in our manufacturing plants or processes or those of our suppliers, or result in liability to BD. Product efficacy or safety concerns regarding our products resulting in product recalls, regulatory action on the part of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or foreign counterparts, declining sales and product liability claims, particularly in light of the current regulatory environment, including increased enforcement activity by the FDA. Competitive factors that could adversely affect our operations, including new product introductions (for example, new forms of drug delivery) by our current or future competitors, increased pricing pressure due to the impact of low cost manufacturers as certain competitors have established manufacturing sites or have contracted with suppliers in low cost manufacturing locations as a means to lower their costs, patents attained by competitors (particularly as patents on our products expire), and new entrants into our markets. The effects of events that adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products (particularly where production of a product line is concentrated in one or more plants) or our ability to source materials or components from suppliers that are needed for such manufacturing, including pandemics, natural disasters, or environmental factors. Fluctuations in the cost and availability of oil based resins and other raw materials, as well as certain sub assemblies and finished goods, the ability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relationships (particularly with respect to sole source suppliers), and the potential adverse effects of any disruption in the availability of such items. Difficulties inherent in product development, including the potential inability to successfully continue technological innovation, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals in the United States and abroad, obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement for new products, or gain and maintain market approval of products, as well as the possibility of infringement claims by competitors with respect to patents or other intellectual property rights, all of which can preclude or delay commercialization of a product. Delays in obtaining necessary approvals or clearances from the FDA or other regulatory agencies or changes in the regulatory process (including potential 510(k) reforms) may also delay product launches and increase development costs. Fluctuations in the demand for products we sell to pharmaceutical companies that are used to manufacture, or are sold with, the products of such companies, as a result of funding constraints, consolidation or otherwise. Fluctuations in university or U.S. and international governmental funding and policies for life sciences research. Our ability to achieve our projected level or mix of product sales. Our earnings forecasts are based on projected volumes and sales of many product types, some of which are more profitable than others. Our ability to implement our ongoing upgrade of our enterprise resource planning system, as any delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our upgrade could adversely affect our business. Security breaches of our computer and communications systems, including computer viruses, hacking and cyber attacks, which could impair our ability to conduct business, or result in the loss of BD trade secrets or otherwise compromise sensitive information of BD or its customers, suppliers and other business partners. 36 Table of Contents Pending and potential future litigation or other proceedings adverse to BD, including antitrust claims, product liability claims and patent infringement claims, and the availability or collectibility of insurance relating to any such claims. The effect of adverse media exposure or other publicity regarding BDs business or operations, including the effect on BDs reputation or demand for its products. The effects, if any, of governmental and media activities regarding the business practices of group purchasing organizations, which negotiate product prices on behalf of their member hospitals with BD and other suppliers. The effect of market fluctuations on the value of assets in BDs pension plans and on actuarial interest rate and asset return assumptions, which could require BD to make additional contributions to the plans or increase our pension plan expense. Political conditions in international markets, including civil unrest, terrorist activity, governmental changes, restrictions on the ability to transfer capital across borders and expropriation of assets by a government, including the recent civil unrest in parts of the Middle East. The impact of business combinations, including any volatility in earnings relating to acquired in process research and development assets, and our ability to successfully integrate any business we may acquire. Our ability to obtain the anticipated benefits of restructuring programs, if any, that we may undertake. Issuance of new or revised accounting standards by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the Securities and Exchange Commission. The foregoing list sets forth many, but not all, of the factors that could impact our ability to achieve results described in any forward looking statements. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. 37 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The information required by this item is included in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and in Notes 1, 12 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and is incorporated herein by reference. 38 Table of Contents 
 
