FILE:D/D-8K-20041019161631.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Section 1-Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On October 15, 2004, Dominion Resources, Inc. (Dominion) entered into a supplemental retirement agreement with Duane C. Radtke, Executive Vice President of Dominion. Under the terms and conditions of the agreement, Mr. Radtke is eligible for a lifetime retirement benefit under Dominion's Executive Supplemental Retirement Plan if he remains employed as an officer of Dominion until age 62. Benefits under the plan are provided either as a lump sum cash payment at retirement or as a monthly annuity.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 19, 2004
 

Exhibit 10
 
 
 
October 15, 2004
 
Mr. Duane C. Radtke President & CEO Dominion E & P Dominion Resources, Inc.
Re: Supplemental Retirement Agreement
Dear Duane:
Because of your valuable knowledge and experience, Dominion Resources, Inc. (the "Company") wishes to enter into this Supplemental Retirement Agreement ("Agreement") with you to ensure that your employment with the Company will continue until you reach age 62. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, the Company therefore agrees that, if you remain in the Company's employ and serve as an officer until you reach age 62, upon your retirement you will be eligible for a lifetime retirement benefit under the Company's Executive Supplemental Retirement Plan ("ESRP").
The ESRP benefit payable under this Agreement will be computed in accordance with the terms of Section 3.1(a) of the ESRP Plan document as an equal periodic payment for 120 months. This benefit will then be paid either monthly over your lifetime (with 120 payments guaranteed) or as a lump sum at retirement, if permitted under the ESRP.
If you receive your benefit in the form of periodic payments and then die before 120 payments have been made, the remaining payments (up to a maximum of 120) will be paid to your beneficiary under the ESRP. If you die after 120 payments have been made, or after you receive your benefit in the form of a lump sum payment at retirement, no further payments will be made after your death.
Any benefits payable under this Agreement will be paid under the ESRP from the Dominion Resources Executive Retirement Income Trust and/or the general assets of the Company as and when due. No promises under this Agreement will be secured by any specific assets of the Company, nor will any assets of the Company be designated as attributable or allocated to the satisfaction of any such promises. Except as provided in this letter, the ESRP benefit will be subject to the terms of the ESRP in effect at the time of payment.
If you agree with the terms and conditions set forth above, please indicate your acceptance by signing and returning one copy of this letter to me. Please retain the other copy for your records.
This agreement becomes effective as of October 15, 2004.
Sincerely yours,
/s/ Thos. E. Capps
Thos. E. Capps Chairman of the Board and Chief   Executive Officer
 
Accepted:                                       Duane C. Radtke
       /s/ Duane C. Radtke            
Date:             
     Oct. 19, 2004                       


