FILE:D/D-8K-20050127092037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On January 25, 2005, the Dominion Resources, Inc. (Dominion) Security Option Plan (Plan) was amended and restated to freeze participation and benefits in the Plan after December 31, 2004 to comply with new deferred compensation requirements of Section 885 of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Plan will continue to operate in accordance with terms of Plan with respect to amounts deferred and/or vested prior to January 1, 2005.
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 27, 2005, Dominion issued a press release announcing unaudited earnings for the year ended December 31, 2004. The press release and related preliminary earnings tables are furnished with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 27, 2005

Exhibit 10
FROZEN AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1
Dominion Resources, Inc. (the "Company") hereby establishes, for the benefit of certain employees as described herein, the Dominion Resources, Inc. Security Option Plan (the "Plan").
The Plan is amended and restated effective as of December 31, 2004 (the "Plan Freeze Date") to freeze the grant of future Fund Options. The terms and conditions of this Plan shall continue to apply with respect to all Fund Options earned and vested under this Plan on or before the Plan Freeze Date (and all future changes in Share Value with respect to such Fund Options). Fund Options with respect to compensation that is earned and vested on or before the Plan Freeze Date, and which is paid on or before March 15, 2005, and amounts earned and vested as of December 31, 2004 under the Deferred Compensation Plan or a Supplemental Retirement Plan shall be governed by the terms and conditions of this Plan, provided that a valid Election Form was submitted with respect to such Compensation. The administrator of this Plan shall not materially modify any of the provisions of the Plan, except as specifically provided in Notice 2005-1 or other such guidance from the Internal Revenue Service and United States Treasury Department under Code Section 409A which may be issued from time to time.
The Plan is being restated with the intent that the restatement shall not constitute a material modification of the Plan for purposes of Code Section 409A. If any portion of this restatement is determined to be a material modification under that Section, that portion of the restatement shall be null and void. All provisions of this restatement of the Plan shall be read and interpreted to be consistent with the intent of this paragraph.
The Plan and all rights thereunder shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. All references to time are Charlotte, North Carolina time. The following definitions will apply unless another definition is specifically provided in a grant agreement.
2.1      means the Administrative Benefits Committee of Dominion Resources Services, Inc.
Administrative Committee
    means Opt Capital or any successor entity designated by the Administrative Committee.
2.2  
Administrator
means any corporation that is in a controlled group of corporations with the Company within the meaning of Code Section 414(b).
2.3     
Affiliate
means, with respect to a Fund Option as of any date, the aggregate of the Fund Values for such Fund Option.
2.4     
Aggregate Fund Value
 
Page 2
means with respect to a Fund Option as of any date, the percentage allocation of the Fund Option's Aggregate Fund Value among the types of Funds on the Fund Menu.
2.5     
Allocation
means the Fund Optionholder's written election made in accordance with Article 5 specifying the Grant Date Allocation of Fund Options granted on or after the date such election takes effect. The election shall be in substantially the form the Administrative Committee prescribes.
2.6     
Allocation Election
means the Person designated by a Participant pursuant to Article 11 to become the Fund Optionholder of specified Fund Options owned by the Participant upon the death of such Participant. If, however, there has been no such designation or an invalid designation, Beneficiary means the Person who becomes the Fund Optionholder pursuant to Section 11.2.
2.7     
Beneficiary
means the board of directors of the Company.
2.8     
Board
means any day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for business.
2.9     
Business Day
means (i) fraud or material misappropriation with respect to the business or assets of the Company, (ii) persistent refusal or willful failure of the Participant to perform substantially his duties and responsibilities to the Company, which continues after the Participant receives notice of such refusal or failure, (iii) conviction of a felony or crime involving moral turpitude, or (iv) the use of drugs or alcohol that interferes materially with the Participant's performance of his duties.
2.10   
Cause
means the occurrence of any of the following events:
2.11    
Change of Control
Any person, including a "group" as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, becomes the owner or beneficial owner of Company securities having 20% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding Company securities that may be cast for the election of the Board (other than as a result of an issuance of securities initiated by the Company, or open market purchases approved by the Board, as long as the majority of the Board approving the purchases is also the majority at the time the purchases are made);
As the direct or indirect result of, or in connection with, a cash tender or exchange offer, a merger or other business combination, a sale of assets, a contested election, or any combination of these transactions, the persons who were directors of the
Company before such transactions cease to constitute a majority of the Board, or any successor's board, within two years of the last of such transactions; or
With respect to a particular Participant, an event occurs with respect to the Participant's employer such that, after the event, the Participant's employer is no longer an Affiliate of the Company.
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
2.12    
Code
 
Page 3
means Dominion Resources, Inc., and any successor business by merger, purchase, or otherwise that maintains the Plan.
2.13    
Company
means a Participant's base salary, cash incentive pay and other cash compensation from the Company, including bonuses and pre-scheduled one-time performance-based payments. The Administrative Committee may determine whether to include or exclude an item of income from Compensation.
2.14    
Compensation
means the Dominion Resources, Inc. Executives' Deferred Compensation Plan, as in effect as of December 31, 2004. Deferred Compensation Plan does not include any plan that is first effective as of January 1, 2005 or later.
2.15    
Deferred Compensation Plan
means the Participant has a condition that renders the Participant eligible for benefits under the Company's long-term disability plan or program applicable to the Participant.
2.16    
Disability
means a Participant's Termination of Employment on account of Disability.
2.17    
Disability Termination
means an amount equal to the Participant's benefits in the Deferred Compensation Plan and/or the Supplemental Retirement Plan that the Participant has elected to receive in the form of Fund Options by properly completing a Distribution Election Form.
2.18    
Distribution Amount
means the form that a Participant uses to elect to receive payment in the form of Fund Options with respect to amounts (i) payable in the form of a lump sum payment from a Supplemental Retirement Plan or (ii) held for the benefit of the Participant in the Deferred Compensation Plan.
2.19    
Distribution Election Form
is January 1, 2003.
2.20    
Effective Date
is 4 p.m. for elections made electronically to the Administrator, and 10:00 a.m. for elections communicated to the Administrator in person or via telephone, facsimile, email, or mail.
2.21    
Election Cutoff Time
means the date by which an Employee must submit a valid Election Form. In respect to Fund Option Elections under Article 3.2, for each Plan Year, the Election Date shall be December 31 of the prior Plan Year (unless the Administrative Committee sets an earlier Election Date), and no Election Date with respect to any Fund Option Election under the Plan shall be later than December 31, 2003. For a Distribution election under Section 3.4(a), the Election Date shall be December 31, 2002 (unless the Administrative Committee sets an earlier Election Date) and such additional dates as established by Administrative Committee. The Election Date under Section 3.4(a) shall be no later than at least six (6) months prior to the commencement of the receipt of benefits under the Deferred Compensation Plan. For a Distribution election under Section 3.4(b), the Election Date shall be
2.22    
Election Date
no later than at least six (6) months prior to the commencement of the receipt of benefits under the Supplemental Retirement Plan.
 
Page 4
means the Form that a Participant uses to elect to receive Compensation in the form of Fund Options pursuant to Article 3.
2.23    
Election Form
means an individual who is employed by a Participating Company on a full-time salaried basis and whose terms and conditions of employment are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
2.24    
Employee
means, with respect to a Fund Option, the Fund Optionholder's exercise of the right to purchase all or part of the Fund Option's Funds that are Vested.
2.25    
Exercise
means the Fund Optionholder's written Exercise election made in accordance with Article 5, and which is in substantially the form the Administrative Committee prescribes.
2.26    
Exercise Election
means the occurrence of the Fund Option's Expiration Date without an Exercise.
2.27    
Expiration
means the date of Expiration of a Fund Option as provided in Section 6.2.
2.28    
Expiration Date
means, with respect to a Participant who incurs a Termination of Employment, the amount of the Participant's Unvested Shares that are forfeited by the Participant.
2.29    
Forfeiture
means an open-end investment company that is registered as such under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
2.30    
Fund
means the menu of Funds, as approved from time to time by the Committee, that can serve as Funds for Fund Options. At its sole discretion, the Committee may change the number and type of Funds at any time and may establish procedures for the transition between Funds.
2.31    
Fund Menu
means each discrete bundle of rights the Participating Company grants to a Participant under this Plan to purchase a specified Fund, when Vested, at a specified Strike Price, subject to any conditions set forth in this Plan or in a Fund Option Agreement that applies to the Fund Option.
2.32    
Fund Option
means an election by a Participant to receive Compensation in the form of Fund Options pursuant to Article 3 by completing an Election Form.
2.33    
Fund Option Election
means, with respect to a Fund Option, the Person who is the beneficial owner of the Fund Option and the Fund Option's entitlements, including any rights the Fund Option gives the Fund Optionholder to Exercise the Fund Option, to allocate or reallocate the Funds of the Fund Options, or to assign the Fund Option.
2.34    
Fund Optionholder
means, with respect to a Fund Option, the rate of growth or decline of the Fund Option's Aggregate Fund Value.
2.35    
Fund Return
 
Page 5
means, with respect to one type of Fund of a Fund Option as of any date, the aggregate of the Share Values of such Fund.
2.36    
Fund Value
means the Participating Company's issuance or grant of a Fund Option to a Participant.
2.37    
Grant
means the date the Fund Option is granted to a Participant under Section 4.2.
2.38    
Grant Date
means, as of the Grant Date, 90% of the Grant Date Aggregate Fund Value. Each Business Day after the Grant Date, the Indexed Strike Price is adjusted by the Indexed Strike Price Adjustment Factor.
2.39    
Indexed Strike Price
means, with respect to a Fund Option, the Fund Return.
2.40    
Indexed Strike Price Adjustment Factor
means, with respect to a Fund, the Person that issues the Fund.
2.41    
Issuer
means, with respect to a Fund Option, 25% of the Grant Date Aggregate Fund Value.
2.42    
Minimum Strike Price
means, as of any date, any Employee who has received one or more Fund Options from the Participating Company and any part of such Fund Options has not expired.
2.43    
Participant
means the Company and all Affiliates, unless the Administrative Committee determines that the Affiliate should not participate in the Plan. All Affiliates are deemed to have adopted the Plan. By its participation in the Plan, a Participating Company shall be deemed to appoint the Company its exclusive agent to exercise on its behalf all of the power and authority conferred by the Plan upon the Company and accept the delegation to the Administrative Committee of all the power and authority conferred upon it by the Plan. The authority of the Company to act as such agent shall continue until the Plan is terminated as to the Participating Company. The term "Participating Company" shall be construed as if the Plan were solely the Plan of such Participating Company, unless the context plainly requires otherwise.
2.44    
Participating Company
means a natural person or any duly organized and validly existing entity such as a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association or trust.
2.45    
Person
means the Dominion Resources, Inc. Security Option Plan.
2.46    
Plan
means the calendar year.
2.47    
Plan Year
means the death of a Participant before a Termination of Employment, Retirement or Disability.
2.48    
Pre-Termination Death
means with respect to a Fund Option, the Fund Optionholder's written election, made in accordance with Article 5 specifying an Allocation for such Fund Option. The election shall be in substantially the form the Administrative Committee prescribes.
2.49    
Reallocation Election
 
Page 6
means Termination of Employment with receipt of early or normal retirement benefits under the Dominion Resources Retirement Plan or any other tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plan of the Company or an Affiliate in which the Participant participates.
2.50    
Retirement
means the Dominion Salaried Savings Plan.
2.51    
Savings Plan
means an equal undivided interest in the Fund, as established by the Issuer.
2.52    
Share
means with respect to a Share as of any date the fair market value of the Share as of the close of business on such date, or, if such date is not a Business Day, the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding.
2.53    
Share Value
means a Fund Option granted to a Participant at the discretion of the Company for any reason, including a Fund Option granted as a special performance award, as an inducement to initial or continued employment, or in lieu of a cash bonus or other compensation.
2.54    
Special Option
means, with respect to a Fund Option as of any date, the excess, if any, of the Fund Option's Aggregate Fund Value as of such date over the Fund Option's Strike Price as of such date.
2.55    
Spread
means with respect to a Fund Option as of any date the greater of the Fund Option's Indexed Strike Price as of such date and the Fund Option's Minimum Strike Price as of such date.
2.56    
Strike Price
means the Dominion Resources, Inc. Retirement Benefit Restoration Plan and/or the Dominion Resources, Inc. Executive Supplemental Retirement Plan, and any similar plan that is maintained by a Participating Company, as in effect as of December 31, 2004. Supplemental Retirement Plan does not include the Dominion Resources, Inc. New Retirement Benefit Restoration Plan, the Dominion Resources, Inc. New Executive Supplemental Retirement or any other similar plan first effective as of January 1, 2005 or later.
2.57    
Supplemental Retirement Plan
means the survivor of a deceased Fund Optionholder to whom such deceased Fund Optionholder was legally married (as determined by the Administrative Committee) immediately before the Fund Optionholder's death.
2.58    
Surviving Spouse
means a termination of employment with the Participating Company or an Affiliate as determined by regular practices and policies of the Participating Company or Affiliate, unless otherwise provided by the Administrative Committee; provided, however, that the transfer of an Employee from employment by one Participating Company or an Affiliate to employment by another Participating Company or Affiliate shall not constitute a Termination of Employment.
2.59    
Termination of Employment
 
Page 7
means the Dominion Resources, Inc. Executive Security Trust.
2.60    
Trust
means with respect to a Fund Option as of a given date the Shares of Funds that are not Vested.
2.61    
Unvested Shares
means a Fund Option that is nonforfeitable and that can be exercised at any time by the Fund Optionholder.
2.62    
Vested
. For periods before January 1, 2005, any Employee with a base salary in excess of $100,000 as of September 1 prior to each Election Date or any Employee designated by the Administrative Committee shall be eligible to become a Participant in the Plan. Any Employee who receives the grant of a Special Option on or before December 31, 2004 shall be a Participant in the Plan. Any Employee who submits a Distribution Election Form on or before December 31, 2004 pursuant to Article 3.4(a) and 3.4(b) shall also be a Participant in the Plan.
3.1    
Eligibility
. Effective as of December 31, 2004, no elections may be made and no Fund Options will be issued with respect to Compensation earned or vested after December 31, 2004. For Election Dates before 2004, an Employee may elect on or before the Election Date to receive a portion of the Employee's Compensation for the following Plan Year in the form of Fund Options. Except as provided in Section 3.2(b), an Employee may make an election for any Plan Year only if he or she is an Employee on the Election Date for that Plan Year. The following provisions apply to Fund Option Elections:
3.2    
Fund Option Election
A Participant may elect with respect to up to 50% of the Participant's base salary and up to 85% of the Participant's annual cash incentive award, long-term cash incentive payments and pre-scheduled one-time cash payments. The amounts of Fund Options may be reduced in accordance with rules established by the Administrative Committee for the coordination of this Plan with other compensation-related plans or programs operated by the Company.
Before each Plan Year's Election Date, each eligible Employee shall be provided with an Election Form. Except as provided below, a Fund Option Election shall be valid only when the Election Form is completed, signed by the electing Employee, and received by the Administrative Committee on or before the Election Date for that Plan Year. If an Employee becomes eligible to Participate in the Plan during a Plan Year due to designation by the Committee under Section 3.1, the Employee may make a Fund Option Election by completing an Election Form within 30 days of becoming eligible to participate in the Plan. The Fund Option Election will be effective for periods after the Administrative Committee receives it. An Employee may not revoke an Election Form after the Plan Year begins, except that an Employee may revoke an Election Form within 30 days following a Change of Control.
The Administrative Committee may reject any Election Form that does not conform to the provisions of the Plan. If the Administrative Committee rejects an Election Form, the Employee shall be paid the amounts the Employee would have been entitled to receive if the Employee had not submitted the Election Form.
 
Page 8
Except as provided in Section 3.2(b), an Employee who has not submitted a valid Election Form to the Administrative Committee on or before the relevant Election Date may not elect to receive any part of the Employee's Compensation for the Plan Year in the form of Fund Options.
 
. No Fund Options may be granted with respect to the Match for Plan Years beginning January 1, 2005 or later. With respect to each Plan Year ending December 31, 2004 or earlier, the Participating Company has the discretion to issue to each eligible Participant a Fund Option with a Grant Date Spread equal to the Match (as defined below).
3.3    
Match
To be eligible for this Grant, a Participant must meet all of the following criteria:
be employed on December 31 or have a Termination of Employment during the Plan Year due to Retirement, death or Disability;
have made salary deferrals to the Dominion Savings Plan for the Plan Year;
have base salary for the Plan Year in excess of the dollar limit for the Plan Year under Code section 401(a)(17); and
the amount of the Match must exceed $500.
The amount of the Match will be determined under the following formula: Excess Compensation Deferral Percentage Match Percentage. The terms in the formula have the following meanings.
times
times
Excess Compensation is the amount of the Participant's base salary for the Plan Year in excess of the dollar limit for the Plan Year under Code section 401(a)(17).
Deferral Percentage is the total of the Participant's salary deferrals to the Dominion Savings Plan for the Plan Year divided by the lesser of (i) the dollar limit for the Plan Year under Code section 401(a)(17), or (ii) the Participant's base salary for the Plan Year reduced by deferrals under this Plan and the Dominion Savings Plan. The Deferral Percentage may not exceed the maximum percentage of compensation on which the Participant would be eligible to receive a match by making a deferral under the Dominion Savings Plan for the Plan Year.
Match Percentage is the percentage of company match made with respect to the Participant's salary deferral to the Dominion Savings Plan.
3.4    
Distribution Election
 
Page 9
A Participant in the Deferred Compensation Plan may elect to receive in the form of Fund Options any amount credited to the Participant's accounts in the Deferred Compensation Plan to this Plan by executing a Distribution Election Form on or before December 31, 2004. This election shall apply only to the amount earned and vested under the Deferred Compensation Plan as of December 31, 2004 and subsequent earnings and losses on that amount. An amount is "earned and vested" under the Deferred Compensation Plan for these purposes if it does not exceed the amount the Participant would have received if he or she had terminated employment with the Company as of December 31, 2004 (if not earlier).
A Participant in a Supplemental Retirement Plan who elects to receive a lump sum payment of benefits under the Supplemental Retirement Plan that was earned and vested as of December 31, 2004 may also elect to receive the calculated Distribution Amount in the form of Fund Options by executing a Distribution Election Form on or before December 31, 2004. An amount is "earned and vested" under a Supplemental Retirement Plan for these purposes if it does not exceed the amount the Participant would have received if he or she had terminated employment with the Company as of December 31, 2004 (if not earlier).
. Fund Options are granted to eligible Participants under the Plan and provide such Participants with the opportunity to purchase units of the Funds shown on the current Fund Menu. A Fund Option shall be granted with a Grant Date Spread equal to (i) the amount of the Participant's Compensation that the Participant has elected to receive as Fund Options under an Election Form; (ii) the amount of the Match; (iii) the Distribution Amount, or (iv) the amount determined by the Company for a Special Option. The specific terms of the Fund Options are referred to in this Plan and may be subject to such additional terms that are set forth in the Fund Option Agreement.
4.1    
Fund Options
. Fund Options will be granted to eligible Participants on the following Grant Dates: (i) with respect to a Fund Option Election, the date that the payment of Compensation would have been made to the Participant; (ii) with respect to the Match, the date determined by the Administrative Committee; (iii) with respect to the Distribution Amount, the date designated on the Distribution Election Form; or (iv) with respect to a Special Option, the date designated by the Company; provided such days are Business Days, otherwise the Grant shall be made on the first Business Day thereafter.
4.2    
Fund Option Issuance
.  All Fund Options shall be fully Vested, unless otherwise provided in a Participant's Fund Option agreement. With respect to Fund Options which are subject to vesting requirements and which were scheduled to vest on or before December 31, 2004, an Employee had to be employed by a Participating Company on such dates to vest in a Fund Option. In addition, all Fund Options were fully Vested on the Employee's Retirement, Pre-Termination Death, or Change of Control. All Fund Options with respect to all Unvested Shares terminated on the Employee's Termination of Employment, unless otherwise provided by the Administrative Committee.
4.3    
Vesting
Page 10
.   At any time before a Fund Option is granted, the Fund Optionholder may specify the Fund Option's Grant Date Allocation. Such specification shall be made by the Fund Optionholder's filing of an Allocation Election with the Administrator. The election shall specify a Grant Date Allocation for all Fund Options. The election establishes the Grant Date Allocation of Fund Options granted on or after the effective date of the election. The election shall remain in effect until the effective date of a new Allocation Election.
5.1    
The Allocation Election
  At any time, a Fund Optionholder may specify the Allocation for a Fund Option. Such specification shall be made by the Fund Optionholder's filing of a Reallocation Election with the Administrator. The election shall specify an Allocation for all Fund Options. The election establishes the Allocation as of the effective date of the election.
5.2    
The Reallocation Election
.
.   All Allocation specifications shall be in whole percentage increments. If the Administrator receives an Allocation Election or a Reallocation Election on a day that is not a Business Day, the effective date of the election shall be the immediately following Business Day. If the Administrator receives an election before the Election Cutoff Time on a Business Day, the effective date shall be such Business Day. If the Administrator receives an election after the Election Cutoff Time on a Business Day, the effective date shall be the immediately following Business Day.
5.3    
Procedures
.   On any Business Day prior to the Fund Option's Expiration Date, the Fund Optionholder can Exercise any Vested Fund Option.
6.1    
Exercise
.   To the extent Vested, a Participant may Exercise a Fund Option as long as the Participant remains an Employee of the Company or an Affiliate. Except as otherwise provided in a Fund Option, the Expiration Date of all Vested Fund Options shall be the first occurrence of any of the following events:
6.2    
Expiration Date
In the event of Retirement or Disability Termination: the last day of the 120 consecutive month following such Retirement or Disability Termination.
th
In the event of Pre-Termination Death: the last day of the 24th consecutive month following such Pre-Termination Death unless the Employee is eligible for Retirement at the time of death, in which case, the last day of the 120 consecutive month following such death.
th
Page 11
In the event of Termination of Employment without Cause other than a Disability Termination (except as provided in 6.2(e)): the last day of the 12th month following such Termination of Employment.
In the event of Termination of Employment with Cause by the Company or an Affiliate (except as provided in 6.2(e)): the last day of the 90th consecutive day period following such Termination of Employment.
In the event of a Termination of Employment of the Participant by the Company or an Affiliate within 36 months after a Change of Control: the last day of the 120 consecutive month following such Termination of Employment.
th
6.3    
Procedures and Timing
To Exercise a Fund Option in whole or in part, the Fund Optionholder must file with the Administrator an Exercise Election, properly completed and duly executed by the Fund Optionholder, specifying the amount of Spread desired, together with payment of the Strike Price related to the desired Spread. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrative Committee may, in the exercise of its discretion, allow a deemed payment of the Strike Price, and require that an Exercise Election be filed and direct that the amount of Spread be paid pursuant to such election.
If the Administrator receives an Exercise Election on a day that is not a Business Day, the Exercise date shall be the immediately following Business Day. If the Administrator receives an Exercise Election before the Election Cutoff Time, the Exercise date shall be such Business Day. If the Administrator receives an Exercise Election after the Election Cutoff Time on a Business Day, the Exercise date shall be the immediately following Business Day.
The Share Value for all purposes related to an Exercise shall be based on the Exercise date.
The Participating Company shall make settlement with respect to an Exercise as soon as administratively practicable after the Exercise date. The Fund Optionholder is not entitled to interest for the time that elapses between the Exercise date and the settlement date. The Participating Company is not liable for any change in Fund Values for the time that elapses between the Exercise date and the settlement date. To make settlement, the Participating Company shall deliver to the Fund Optionholder the Shares of the Funds that are subject to the Exercise. If the Administrative Committee allows a deemed payment of the Strike Price, the Participating Company may settle its obligations with respect to the Exercise by delivering Shares of the Funds with an Aggregate Fund Value as of the Exercise date equal to the Spread being exercised, less applicable withholding. At its sole discretion, the Participating Company may make settlement by delivery to the Fund Optionholder of cash equal to the Share Value of the Sh ares of the Fund that otherwise would have been delivered.
A partial Exercise of a Fund Option shall not affect the Fund Optionholder's Exercise rights with respect to the remainder of the Fund Option. On a partial Exercise of a Fund Option that is less than 100% Vested, the Vested portion of the Fund Option shall be adjusted to reflect the Exercise.
 
Page 12
In no event shall an Exercise be permitted if the Spread to be exercised is less than $5,000 unless all of the Spread on all Vested Fund Options is being exercised.
Whenever payment is made pursuant to the Exercise of a Fund Option, all tax withholding shall be made by means of tax withholding from the Fund
Shares covered by the Exercise.
.   If a Fund Optionholder entitled to a benefit under this Article 6 dies before payment of the benefit is made, then payment of the benefit shall be made to such Fund Optionholder's Beneficiary.
6.4    
Payments to Beneficiary
.   Upon the occurrence of a Forfeiture, the Fund Option or portion of the Fund Option subject to the Forfeiture shall be canceled, and the Fund Optionholder of the Fund Option shall have no rights with respect to the canceled Fund Option, or the portion of the Fund Option canceled, as the case may be. If less than all of a Fund Option is canceled, then the Forfeiture shall be allocated among the Fund Option's Funds in the same proportion as the Fund Option's Fund Allocation as of the Business Day immediately preceding the date of Forfeiture.
7.1    
Forfeitures
.   In the event of an Expiration of a Fund Option, the Fund Option shall be canceled and the Fund Optionholder shall have no right with respect to the canceled Fund Option.
7.2    
Expirations
.   Each Business Day, the Administrator shall calculate and record, or cause to be calculated and recorded, the following with respect to each Fund Option: (i) the Share Value with respect to each Fund, (ii) the number of Unvested Shares with respect to each Fund, and (iii) the number of Vested Shares with respect to each Fund. The Shares of a Fund shall be allocated among the Unvested Shares and Vested Shares in the same proportion that the Aggregate Fund Value for Unvested Shares and Vested Shares, as the case may be, bears to the Aggregate Fund Value. In calculating the number of Shares, the following transactions shall be accounted for as follows:
8.1    
Funds
Upon the Grant of a Fund Option, there shall be calculated and recorded (i) the number of Unvested Shares of each Fund, and (ii) the number of Vested Shares of each Fund.
Page 13
Upon an Exercise of the Fund Option, there shall be subtracted the number of Shares of each Fund transferred or deemed transferred pursuant to the Exercise. An Exercise Election shall be applied to the Fund Optionholder's Fund Options according to the following protocol:
A Fund Option is "in-the-money" if it has a positive Spread.
The "in-the-money" Fund Option with the nearest Expiration Date is exercised first to the extent necessary to fulfill the Exercise Election (if there is more than one such Fund Option, the Fund Options are exercised pro rata), and if such Fund Option(s) is insufficient, then the "in-the-money" Fund Option(s) with the second nearest Expiration Date is exercised to the extent necessary to fulfill the Exercise Election, and if such Fund Option(s) is insufficient the process continues with "in-the-money" Fund Options as necessary to fulfill the Exercise Election;
If the "in-the-money" Fund Options are insufficient to fulfill the Exercise Election, the Administrator shall notify the Fund Optionholder of the shortfall.
Upon a Forfeiture or Expiration of the Fund Option, there shall be subtracted the Shares of each Fund that are subject to the Forfeiture or Expiration.
Upon the Issuer's payment of a dividend consisting of cash or property other than Shares with respect to a Fund of the Fund Option, there shall be added to the Fund Option additional Shares of the Fund with a Grant Date Spread equal to the value of the dividend.
Upon the Issuer's payment of a dividend consisting of Shares with respect to a Fund of the Fund Option, there shall be added to the Fund Option the number of Shares deemed to be distributed with respect to the Fund.
Upon a stock split or recapitalization whereby the Issuer distributes new Shares of a Fund in exchange for the cancellation of existing Shares of the Fund, there shall be subtracted the number of Shares of the Fund that are canceled and there shall be added the number of Shares of the Fund deemed to be received in exchange therefore.
Upon the filing of a Reallocation Election affecting the Fund Option, there shall be added or subtracted, as the case may be, the appropriate number of Shares of each Fund affected.
Upon an increase in the Vested percentage of the Fund Option, the number of Unvested Shares of each Fund shall be reduced as required and a like number of Shares added to the number of Vested Shares of each Fund, as applicable.
.   Each Business Day, the Administrator shall calculate and record, or cause to be calculated and recorded, the Indexed Strike Price with respect to each Fund Option. In calculating the Indexed Strike Price, the following transactions shall be accounted for as follows:
8.2    
Indexed Strike Price
Page 14
Upon a Grant, the Indexed Strike Price shall be calculated and recorded.
There shall be an increase (decrease) equal to the Indexed Strike Price Adjustment Factor of the Fund Option since the last preceding Business Day.
Upon an Exercise, if the Indexed Strike Price is greater than or equal to the Minimum Strike Price, the amount of the Strike Price received or deemed to be received pursuant to the Exercise of the Fund Option shall be subtracted from the Indexed Strike Price. If the Indexed Strike Price is less than the Minimum Strike Price, the Indexed Strike Price shall be reduced by an amount that bears the same proportion to the Indexed Strike Price immediately before the reduction as the Strike Price received or deemed to be received pursuant to the Exercise of the Fund Option bears to the total Strike Price immediately preceding such Exercise.
Upon a Forfeiture or Expiration of the Fund Option, the Indexed Strike Price shall be reduced by an amount that bears the same proportion to the Indexed Strike Price before such reduction as the Aggregate Fund Value of the Forfeiture or Expiration bears to the Fund Option's Aggregate Fund Value immediately preceding the Forfeiture or Expiration.
.   Upon a Grant, the Administrator shall calculate and record, or cause to be calculated and recorded, the Minimum Strike Price with respect to each Fund Option. In keeping track of the Minimum Strike Price, the following transactions shall be accounted for as follows:
8.3    
Minimum Strike Price
Upon an Exercise, if the Minimum Strike Price is greater than or equal to the Indexed Strike Price, the amount of the Strike Price received or deemed to be received pursuant to the Exercise of the Fund Option shall be subtracted from the Minimum Strike Price. If the Minimum Strike Price is less than the Indexed Strike Price, the Minimum Strike Price shall be reduced by an amount that bears the same proportion to the Minimum Strike Price immediately before the reduction as the Strike Price received or deemed to be received pursuant to the Exercise of the Fund Option bears to the total Strike Price immediately preceding such Exercise.
Upon a Forfeiture or Expiration of the Fund Option, the Minimum Strike Price shall be reduced by an amount that bears the same proportion to the Minimum Strike Price before such reduction as the Aggregate Fund Value of the Forfeiture or Expiration bears to the Fund Option's Aggregate Fund Value immediately preceding the Forfeiture or Expiration.
.   The Plan shall be unfunded. The Company shall not be required to segregate any assets that at any time represent a benefit. The Company may deposit funds with the trustee of the Trust (or such similar trust that is maintained or established by the Company) to provide the benefits to which Participants and Beneficiaries may be entitled under the Plan. The funds deposited with the trustee of such trust, and the earnings thereon, will be dedicated to the payment of benefits under the Plan but shall remain subject to the claims of the general creditors of the Company. Any liability of the Company to a Participant or Beneficiary under this Plan shall be based solely on contractual obligations that may be created pursuant to this Plan. No such obligation of the Company shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge of, or other encumbrance on, any property of the Company .
9.1    
Unfunded Plan
Page 15
.    The Plan shall be administered by the Administrative Committee. The Administrative Committee shall interpret the Plan, establish regulations to further the purposes of the Plan and take any other action necessary to the proper operation of the Plan. Prior to paying a benefit under the Plan, the Administrative Committee may require the Participant, former Participant or Beneficiary to provide such information or material as the Administrative Committee, in its sole discretion, shall deem necessary to make any determination it may be required to make under the Plan. The Administrative Committee may withhold payment of a benefit under the Plan until it receives all such information and material and is reasonably satisfied of its correctness and genuineness. The Administrative Committee may delegate all or any of its respon sibilities and powers to any Persons selected by it, including designated officers or Employees of the Company.
10.1    
Powers and Duties of the Administrative Committee
.   The Administrative Committee may engage such legal counsel, certified public accountants and other advisers and service providers, who may be advisers or service providers for the Participating Company or an Affiliate, and make use of such agents and personnel of the Company, as it shall require or may deem advisable for purposes of the Plan. The Administrative Committee may rely upon the written opinion of any legal counsel or accountants engaged by the Administrative Committee. The Administrative Committee may delegate to the Administrator, any agent or to any subcommittee or member of the Administrative Committee its authority to perform any act hereunder, including, without limitation, those matters involving the exercise of discretion, provided that such delegation shall be subject to revocation at any time at the discretion of the Administrative Committee.
10.2    
Agents
.   If for any reason a benefit payable under this Plan is not paid when due, the Participant or Beneficiary may file a written claim with the Administrative Committee. If the claim is denied or no response is received within forty-five (45) days after the date on which the claim was filed with the Administrative Committee (in which case the claim will be deemed to have been denied), the Participant or Beneficiary may appeal the denial to the Administrative Committee within sixty (60) days of receipt of written notification of the denial or the end of the forty-five day period, whichever occurs first. In pursuing an appeal, the Participant or Beneficiary may request that the Administrative Committee review the denial, may review pertinent documents, and may submit issues and documents in writing to the Administrative Committee. A decision on appeal will be made w ithin sixty (60) days after the appeal is made, unless special circumstances require the Administrative Committee to extend the period for another sixty (60) days.
10.3    
Claims for Benefits
.   To the maximum extent permitted by law, no member of the Administrative Committee shall be personally liable by reason of any
10.4    
Hold Harmless
Page 16
contract or other instrument executed by such member or on such member's behalf in such member's capacity as a member of the Administrative Committee nor for any mistake of judgment made in good faith, and the Participating Company shall indemnify and hold harmless, directly from its own assets (including the proceeds of any insurance policy the premiums of which are paid from the Company's own assets), each member of the Administrative Committee and each other officer, employee, or director of the Participating Company or an Affiliate to whom any duty or power relating to the administration or interpretation of the Plan against any cost or expense (including counsel fees) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim with the approval of the Participating Company) arising out of any act or omission to act in connection with the Plan unless arising out of such person's own fraud or bad faith.
.   The Secretary of the Participating Company or such other person designated by the Board shall be the agent for service of process under the Plan.
10.5    
Service of Process
.   To the extent authorized by the Administrative Committee, any action required to be taken by a Fund Optionholder may be taken in writing, by electronic transmission, by telephone, or by facsimile, except for a beneficiary designation which must be in writing.
10.6    
Form of Administration
.   Every Fund Optionholder shall file with the Administrator a Beneficiary designation, substantially in the form prescribed by the Administrative Committee, of one or more Persons as the Beneficiary who shall be entitled to become the Fund Optionholder of Fund Options held by the Participant upon the Participant's death. A Participant may from time to time revoke or change such Beneficiary designation without the consent of any prior Beneficiary by filing a new designation with the Administrator, except where the consent of another person is required by law. The last such designation received by the Administrator shall be controlling; provided, however, that no designation, or change or revocation thereof, shall be effective unless received by the Administrator prior to the Participant's death, and in no event shall it be effective as of any date prior to such receipt. All decisions of the Administrative Committee concerning the effectiveness of any Beneficiary designation, and the identity of any Beneficiary, shall be final.
11.1    
Beneficiary Designation
.   If no Beneficiary designation is in effect at the time of a Participant's death, the Fund Options, if any, held by the Participant at the Participant's death shall be transferred to the Participant's surviving spouse, if any, or if the Participant has no surviving spouse, to the Participant's estate. A Participant's surviving spouse is the Person to whom the Participant was legally married (as determined by the Administrative Committee) immediately before the Participant's death. If the Administrative Committee is in doubt as to the right of any Person to receive such Fund Options, the Administrative Committee may direct the Participating Company to withhold payment, without liability for any interest thereon, until the rights thereto are determined, or the Administrative Committee may direct the Participating Company to pay any such amount into any court of appropriate jurisdiction and such payment shall be a complete discharge of the liability of the Participating Company therefor.
11.2    
Failure to Designate Beneficiary
Page 17
.   The Board reserves the right at any time through action of its Organization, Compensation and Nominating Committee to amend or terminate the Plan, in whole or in part, and for any reason and without the consent of any Participating Company, Participant or Beneficiary. Each Participating Company by its participation in the Plan shall be deemed to have delegated this authority to the Board. At its discretion, the Organization, Compensation and Nominating Committee may delegate all or part of its authority to amend the Plan to the Administrative Committee.
12.1    
Right to Amend or Terminate Plan
In no event shall an amendment or termination modify, reduce or otherwise affect the Participating Company's obligations under the Plan, as such obligations are defined under the provisions of the Plan existing immediately before such amendment or termination. In no event shall the Board or any committee of the Board make an amendment constituting a "material modification" of this Plan, except as specifically provided under Code Section 409A and the regulations and guidance issued thereunder that would not subject the Plan to the provisions of Code Section 409A.
.   Notice of any amendment or termination of the Plan shall be given by the Administrative Committee to all Participating Companies.
12.2    
Notice
.   Nothing contained in the Plan shall give any Employee the right to be retained in the employment of any Participating Company or Affiliate or affect the right of any such employer to dismiss any Employee. The adoption and maintenance of the Plan shall not constitute a contract between any Participating Company and Employee or consideration for, or an inducement to or condition of, the employment of any Employee.
13.1    
No Right to Continued Employment
.   If the Administrative Committee shall find that any person to whom any amount is payable under the Plan is unable to care for such person's affairs because of illness or accident, or is a minor, or has died, then any payment due such person or such person's estate (unless a prior claim therefor has been made by a duly appointed legal representative) may, if the Administrative Committee so elects in its sole discretion, be paid to such person's spouse, a child, a relative, an institution maintaining or having custody of such person, or any other person deemed by the Administrative Committee to be a proper recipient on behalf of such person otherwise entitled to payment. Any such payment shall be a complete discharge of the liability of the Plan and the Participating Company therefor.
13.2    
Payment on Behalf of Payee
13.3    
Nonalienation.
Page 18
Subject to Section 13.3(b), no Fund Option, interest, expectancy, benefit, payment, claim or right of any Participant or Fund Optionholder under the Plan shall be (a) subject in any manner to any claims of any creditor of the Participant or Fund Optionholder, (b) subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities or torts of the Participant or Fund Optionholder or (c) subject to alienation by anticipation, sale, transfer, assignment, bankruptcy, pledge, attachment, charge or encumbrance of any kind. If any Person shall attempt to take any action contrary to this Section, such action shall be null and void and of no effect, and the Administrative Committee and the Participating Company shall disregard such action and shall not in any manner be bound thereby and shall suffer no liability on account of its disregard thereof. If the Participant or Fund Optionholder, or any other beneficiary hereunder shall become bankrupt or attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber, or charge any right hereunder, then such right or benefit shall, in the discretion of the Administrative Committee, cease and terminate, and in such event, the Administrative Committee may hold or apply the same or any part thereof for the benefit of the Participant or Fund Optionholder or the spouse, children, or other dependents of the Participant or Fund Optionholder, or any of them, in such manner and in such amounts and proportions as the Administrative Committee may deem proper.
Notwithstanding Section 13.3(a), a Participant may at any time prior to death assign by gift a Fund Option to the Participant's spouse, adult children or a trust for the benefit of the Participant, the Participant's spouse or adult children. The Participant may also assign by gift a Fund Option to a tax-exempt entity as defined in Code Section 501(c)(3). Notwithstanding the foregoing, such an assignment shall be permitted only if (i) the Participant is 100% Vested in the Fund Option, and (ii) the assignment is made by gift for which the Participant receives no consideration for the assignment. Any such assignment shall be evidenced by an appropriate written document executed by the Participant and a copy delivered to the Committee in advance of the effective date of the assignment. In the event of such an assignment, the assignee shall become the Fund Optionholder of the Fund Option and shall be entitled to all the rights of the Participant with respect to the assigned Fund Option, and such Fund Option s hall continue to be subject to all of the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to the Fund Option, as set forth in the Plan.
.   If the Administrative Committee cannot ascertain the whereabouts of any person to whom a payment is due under the Plan, and if, after five years from the date such payment is due, a notice of such payment due is mailed to the last known address of such person, as shown on the records of the Administrative Committee or the Company, and within three months after such mailing such person has not made written claim therefor, the Administrative Committee, if it so elects, after receiving advice from counsel to the Plan, may direct that such payment and all remaining payments otherwise due to such person be canceled on the records of the Plan and the amount thereof forfeited, and upon such cancellation, the Participating Company shall have no further liability therefor, except that, in the event such person later notifies the Administrative Committee of such person's whe reabouts and requests the payment or payments due to such person under the Plan, the amounts otherwise due but unpaid shall be paid to such person without interest for late payment.
13.4    
Missing Payee
.    Each Participant shall file with the Administrative Committee such pertinent information concerning himself or herself, such
13.5    
Required Information
Page 19
Participant's Beneficiary, or such other person as the Administrative Committee may specify, and no Participant, Beneficiary, or other person shall have any rights or be entitled to any benefits under the Plan unless such information is filed by or with respect to the Participant.
.   The obligations of the Participating Company to make payments hereunder shall constitute a liability of the Participating Company to a Participant or Beneficiary, as the case may be. Such payments shall be made from the general funds of the Participating Company, and the Participating Company shall not be required to establish or maintain any special or separate fund, or purchase or acquire life insurance on a Participant's life, or otherwise to segregate assets to insure that such payment shall be made, and neither a Participant nor a Beneficiary shall have any interest in any particular asset of the Participating Company by reason of its obligations hereunder. Nothing contained in the Plan shall create or be construed as creating a trust of any kind or any other fiduciary relationship between the Participating Company and a Participant or any other person. The rights and claims of a Participant or a Beneficiary to a benefit provided hereunder shall have no greater or higher status than the rights and claims of any other general, unsecured creditor of the Participating Company.
13.6    
No Trust or Funding Created
.   Obligations incurred by the Participating Company pursuant to this Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Participating Company, its successors and assigns, and the Participant and the Participant's Beneficiary.
13.7    
Binding Effect
.   In the event of a merger or a consolidation by the Participating Company with another corporation, or the acquisition of substantially all of the assets or outstanding stock of the Participating Company by another corporation, then and in such event the obligations and responsibilities of the Participating Company under this Plan shall be assumed by any such successor or acquiring corporation, and all of the rights, privileges and benefits of the Participants and Beneficiaries hereunder shall continue.
13.8    
Merger or Consolidation
.   The Plan document, and any written amendments thereto, contain all the terms and provisions of the Plan and shall constitute the entire Plan.
13.9    
Entire Plan

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
Conference call scheduled for 10 a.m. EST today
RICHMOND, Va., - Dominion (NYSE: D) announced today preliminary unaudited net income determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) for the 12 months ended Dec. 31, 2004, of $1.249 billion ($3.78 per share) compared to net income of $318 million ($1.00 per share) for the same period last year.
Operating earnings, which are defined as GAAP earnings adjusted for certain items, were $1.523 billion ($4.61 per share) for the 12 months ended Dec. 31, 2004, compared to operating earnings of $1.449 billion ($4.55 per share) for the same period in 2003.
Dominion uses operating earnings as the primary performance measurement of its earnings outlook and results for public communications with analysts and investors. Dominion also uses operating earnings internally for budgeting, reporting to the board of directors and for the company's profit sharing plan. Dominion management believes operating earnings provide a more meaningful representation of the company's fundamental earnings power.
Business segment results and detailed descriptions of items included in 2004 and 2003 GAAP earnings but excluded from operating earnings can be found in schedules 1, 2 and 3 of this release or on Dominion's Web site at .
www.dom.com/investors/
Thos. E. Capps, chairman and chief executive officer, said:
"2004 went very much the way we expected when it began with the exception of the under-recovery of Virginia fuel. We firmly believe that the trade-off between a fixed fuel factor scheduled to be adjusted in mid-2007 and base rate certainty through 2010 will result in greater value to our shareholders."
 
Fourth quarter earnings
Dominion also announced today preliminary unaudited net income determined in accordance with GAAP for the three months ended Dec. 31, 2004, of $224 million (67 cents per share) compared to a net loss of $174 million (54 cents per share) for the same period last year.
Operating earnings were $408 million ($1.22 per share) for the three months ended Dec. 31, 2004, compared to operating earnings of $274 million (84 cents per share) for the same period in 2003.
Business segment results and detailed descriptions of items included in fourth quarter 2004 and 2003 GAAP earnings that are excluded from operating earnings can be found in schedules 1, 2 and 3 of this release or on Dominion's Web site at .
www.dom.com/investors/
 
2004 operating earnings compared to expectations
Dominion earned $1.22 per share in operating earnings during the fourth quarter of 2004. This fell below fourth-quarter guidance of $1.29 to $1.36 per share announced Oct. 21. Key reasons were lower sales in our franchise service areas due to warmer-than-normal weather; unrecoverable fuel expenses at Dominion Virginia Power; lower-than-expected contributions from the Clearinghouse; and a delay in the acquisition of the Kewuanee nuclear power plant. Additionally, sales at Dominion Exploration and Production (E&P) were reduced by longer-than-forecast production delays created by Hurricane Ivan and lower-than-expected business interruption insurance proceeds due to the timing and processing of our resulting claims. These offset the benefit of higher-than-anticipated prices received from natural gas and oil production.
Dominion's full-year 2004 operating earnings of $4.61 per share compares to expectations announced on Jan. 23, 2004 of $4.80 to $5.00 per share. The difference is primarily attributable to the effect of Virginia fuel expenses and Clearinghouse results, partially offset by the benefit of higher commodity prices and gains on oil options at Dominion E&P.
Complete details of fourth quarter and full-year 2004 results versus guidance can be found on schedule 4 of this release or on Dominion's Web site at .
www.dom.com/investors/
 
2004 operating earnings compared to 2003
Fourth-quarter 2004 operating earnings of $1.22 per share compares to 84 cents per share in the fourth quarter of 2003. The increase is primarily attributable to higher contributions from Clearinghouse activities and Millstone, lower purchased power capacity expenses and higher revenue at E&P, partially offset by higher expenses at E&P and the impact of Virginia fuel expenses.
Full year 2004 operating earnings of $4.61 per share compares to $4.55 per share in 2003. The increase is primarily attributable to higher contributions from Millstone and Dominion Retail, lower purchased power capacity expenses and higher revenue at E&P, partially offset by lower contributions from Clearinghouse activities, higher expenses at E&P and the impact of Virginia fuel expense.
Complete details of fourth-quarter and full-year 2004 operating earnings versus 2003 can be found on schedules 5 and 6 of this release or on Dominion's Web site at .
www.dom.com/investors/
 
Change in Clearinghouse revenue and cost allocation
As mentioned during its Dec. 20 conference call, Dominion has made a strategic decision decided to exit proprietary trading and focus the Clearinghouse operations on management and optimization of company assets. Accordingly, revenue Clearinghouse revenue and associated costs from management and optimization of company assets will be allocated back to reported as part of the results of the business segments operating the related assets. 2004 and 2003 segment results have been recast to reflect coal and emissions trading in the Generation segment and are detailed in the attached schedules as well as supplemental schedules found on Dominion's Web site. 2004 and 2003 consolidated results are unaffected by this change.
 
First quarter 2005 operating earnings guidance
Dominion expects to produce first-quarter 2005 operating earnings in the range of $1.35 to $1.45 per share. This compares to $1.37 per share in the first quarter 2004. The primary drivers compared to 2004 include: customer growth, net purchased power capacity expense savings, and contributions from E&P and the newly acquired Dominion New England assets, partially offset by the impact of Virginia fuel expenses and a return to normal weather.
In providing 2005 operating earnings guidance, Dominion management is aware of potential differences between operating earnings and GAAP-earnings. Dominion estimates an after-tax charge of $40 million to $45 million related to the pending acquisition of the Panda non-utility generation facility, expected to close in the first quarter. Until the acquisition is completed, Dominion management is not able to estimate the corresponding GAAP equivalent for 2005 operating earnings per share guidance.
Complete details of Dominion's first quarter 2005 guidance can be found on our Web site at .
www.dom.com/investors/
 
Conference call for investors / media
Dominion will host a conference call today at 10 a.m. EST to discuss 2004 results and other issues of interest to investors.
Domestic investors who wish to participate in the conference call should dial . International investors should call . Participants should dial in 10 to 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. Members of the media also are invited to listen.
888-243-3836
973-935-2096
A live Web cast of the conference call will be available on the company's investor information page at www.dom.com/investors/.
A replay of the conference call will be available from approximately 1 p.m. EST, Jan. 27 until 11 p.m. EST, Feb. 3. Domestic investors may access the recording by dialing . International callers should dial to access the recording. The for the conference call replay is . Additionally, a replay of the Web cast will be available on the company's investor information page by the end of the day Jan. 27.
877-519-4471
973-341-3080
PIN
5579284
Dominion is one of the nation's largest producers of energy, with an energy portfolio of about 28,100 megawatts of generation, about 6 trillion cubic feet equivalent of proved natural gas reserves and 7,900 miles of natural gas transmission pipeline. Dominion also operates the nation's largest underground natural gas storage system with more than 960 billion cubic feet of storage capacity and serves retail energy customers in eight states. For more information about Dominion, visit the company's Web site at www.dom.com.
This release contains forward-looking statements including our expectations for 2005 earnings that are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's projections, forecasts, estimates and expectations may include factors that are beyond the company's ability to control or estimate precisely, such as the successful completion of pending acquisitions, estimates of future market conditions, estimates of proved and unproved reserves and the behavior of other market participants. Other factors include, but are not limited to, weather conditions, governmental regulations, economic conditions in the company's service area, fluctuations in energy-related commodity prices, including changes in the cost of fuel for our regulated electric business, risks related to operating businesses in regulated industries that are becoming deregulated, the transfer of control over electric transmission facilities to a regional transmissi on organization, changes to rating agency requirements and ratings, changing financial accounting standards, trading counter-party credit risks, risks related to energy trading and marketing, and other uncertainties. Other risk factors are detailed from time to time in Dominion's most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q or annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities & Exchange Commission.
Schedule 1
Segment contribution to earnings recast to reflect reallocation of Clearinghouse results.
Refer to schedules 2 and 3 for details related to items excluded from operating earnings, or find "GAAP Reconciliation" on Dominion's Web site at www.dom.com/investors.
 
Schedule 2
Reconciliation of measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) versus non-GAAP measures
2004 Earnings (twelve months ended December 31, 2004)
The net effects of the following items, all shown on an after-tax basis, are included in 2004 reported earnings, but are excluded from operating earnings:
$112 million charge resulting from a planned divestiture and updated valuation of a long-term power-tolling contract that had been used in connection with trading activities
;
$61 million charge related to the de-designation of oil hedges resulting from the delay of oil production following Hurricane Ivan and the changes in value of those hedges through the third-quarter;
$61 million of charges related to our investment in and planned divestiture of Dominion Capital assets;
$43 million charge related to the termination of power purchase contracts, resulting from the acquisition of non-utility generating facilities;
$13 million of charges related to our discontinued telecommunications business;
$6 million of expenses related to the sale of E&P assets in British Columbia;
$6 million of net charges related to other items including:
$7 million charge related to an agreement to settle a class action lawsuit;
$7 million charge related to the impairment of miscellaneous investments;
$11 million benefit related to the true-up of the Hurricane Isabel restoration cost estimate;
$3 million net charge related to other items; and
$28 million benefit related to the disposition of certain CNG International assets held for sale.
* Figures may not add due to rounding   Full-year EPS may not equal sum of quarters due to share count differences
 
Schedule 3
Reconciliation of measures prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) versus non-GAAP measures
2003 Earnings (twelve months ended December 31, 2003)
The net effects of the following items, all shown on an after-tax basis, are included in 2003 reported earnings, but are excluded from operating earnings:
$750 million of charges related to our investment in and planned sale of Dominion Telecom;
$122 million in restoration expenses from Hurricane Isabel;
$81 million of asset impairments at Dominion Capital;
$69 million impairment of CNG International assets held for sale;
$65 million charge related to the termination of a power purchase contract, resulting from the acquisition of a non-utility generating facility;
$28 million of net charges representing the combined impact of the following: $180 million gain representing the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle from adoption of SFAS No. 143, ; $114 million of charges comprised of a $75 million charge, representing the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle from adopting SFAS No. 133 Implementation Issue C20, , and a $39 million charge related to subsequent restructuring of contracts; $67 million charge representing the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle from rescission of EITF Issue No. 98-10, ; $27 million charge representing the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle from adopting FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised Dec ember 2003), (FIN 46R) for our interests in special purpose entities; and
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
Interpretation of the Meaning of 'Not Clearly and Closely Related' in Paragraph 10(b) regarding Contracts with a Price Adjustment Feature
Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
$16 million charge for severance costs related to workforce reductions.
* Figures may not add due to rounding   Full-year EPS may not equal sum of quarters due to share count differences
Schedule 4
 
Reconciliation of Operating Earnings to Guidance Three months ended December 31, 2004
 
 
Reconciliation of Operating Earnings to Guidance Twelve months ended December 31, 2004
 
* Refer to schedule 2 for details of items excluded from 2004 operating earnings, or find "GAAP Reconciliation" on Dominion's Web site at www.dom.com/investors.
 
Schedule 5
* Refer to schedules 2 and 3 for details of items excluded from operating earnings, or find "GAAP Reconciliation" on Dominion's Web site at .
www.dom.com/investors
 
Schedule 6
* Refer to schedules 2 and 3 for details of items excluded from operating earnings, or find "GAAP Reconciliation" on Dominion's Web site at .
www.dom.com/investors


