FILE:D/D-8K-20070601161342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
   
 
   
Section 8Other Events
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
In accordance with Item 8.01, Dominion reports that on May 29, 2007 the Companys Board of Directors approved the merger of
its wholly owned subsidiary, Consolidated Natural Gas Company, into the parent holding company, Dominion Resources, Inc., as part of a move to streamline its corporate structure. As more fully described in the attached press release dated May 31, 2007, the consummation of the merger is targeted for the second to third quarter of the year.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 1, 2007

 
RICHMOND, Va. - Dominion (NYSE:D) announced today that it intends to merge its wholly owned subsidiary, Consolidated Natural Gas Company, into the parent holding company, Dominion Resources, Inc., as part of a move to streamline its corporate structure.
The merger is targeted for the second to third quarter of the year. Dominion will then assume all obligations related to CNG debt, as well as any other financial obligations such as guarantees. Also, first-tier CNG subsidiaries will become first-tier Dominion subsidiaries instead of second-tier subsidiaries.
Thomas F. Farrell II, chairman, president and chief executive officer, said:
"This move will simplify our corporate structure and help us operate more efficiently. It will reduce the number of legal filings, save audit expenses and enable us to conduct all public financing activities through two entities - Dominion Resources, Inc. and Virginia Electric and Power Company - instead of three. As we divest E&P assets this year, it is an appropriate time to take this simplifying step."
Dominion is one of the nation's largest producers of energy, with a portfolio of about 26,500 megawatts of generation, about 6.5 trillion cubic feet equivalent of proved natural gas reserves and 7,800 miles of natural gas transmission pipeline.  Dominion also owns and operates the nation's largest underground natural gas storage system with about 960 billion cubic feet of storage capacity and serves retail energy customers in 11 states.  For more information about Dominion, visit the company's Web site at
http://www.dom.com
.
This release contains certain forward-looking statements concerning our expectations for the future that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ from those predicted. Our forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs and assumptions using information available at the time the statements are made. We caution the reader not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements because the assumptions and expectations about future events may differ materially from actual results.


