FILE:D/D-8K-20070131160755.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
o
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item. 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Annual Incentive Plan
On January 25, 2007 the Dominion Resources, Inc. (Dominion) Compensation, Governance and Nominating Committee (CGN Committee) recommended to the Dominion Board of Directors, and on January 26, 2007 the Dominion Board of Directors approved, the 2007 Annual Incentive Plan (the Plan). Under the Plan, Dominions officers are eligible for an annual performance-based award. The Plan will be funded based on the achievement of consolidated operating earnings goals. For those Dominion officers that are among the top most highly compensated group for 2007, including all of Dominions named executive officers, pay-out of incentives under the Plan will be based solely on the achievement of the funding goals, with the CGN Committee having the discretion to lower actual pay-outs to ensure that such awards are consistent with those granted to other Plan participants. For all other officers and employees, awards will be distributed out of the available funding based on the achievement of certain pay-out goals established for them by the CGN Committee. For officers in this group, the pay-out goals are weighted as follows:  25% - consolidated operating earnings; 50% - business unit operating earnings; 15% - operating and stewardship goals and 10% - Six Sigma cost savings goals. Twenty percent of the business unit operating earnings and consolidated operating earnings goals will be tied to capital expenditures goals. Actual bonuses may exceed the target amount if additional consolidated operating earnings funding goals are achieved.
Under the Plan, the target amounts of the incentive awards are based on a percentage of base salary and are established for each executive officer based on his or her position level. For 2007, the target percentage of base salary for Dominions named executive officers are as follows: President and Chief Executive Officer-120%; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer-95%; Executive Vice President (President and Chief Executive Officer-Dominion Exploration & Production)-95%; and President and Chief Executive Officer - Dominion Generation - 95%.
Retention Agreement
On January 26, 2007, Dominion entered into a retention agreement with Mr. Duane C. Radtke, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dominions Exploration and Production (E&P) unit, to provide for a smooth transition during Dominions previously announced strategic process in seeking potential buyers for a substantial portion of its E&P assets.
The Agreement provides for certain retention benefits if Mr. Radtke remains employed by Dominion for a period ending six months after the conclusion of Dominions strategic process, unless Mr. Radtkes employment terminates earlier as a result of his employment by a buyer of the E&P assets or other circumstances described in the Agreement. The retention benefits include: (1) a lump sum payment equal to one year of Mr. Radtkes annual base salary plus bonus and (2) for purposes of Dominions New Executive Supplemental Retirement Plan, New Benefit Restoration Plan, and Mr. Radtkes letter agreement dated March 16, 2001, he will be treated as age 62, including additional service as though he had worked until age 62.
The Agreement also provides for Mr. Radtke to receive certain severance benefits if, before the conclusion of the strategic process, Dominion, without cause or constructively as a result of the strategic process, terminates Mr. Radtkes employment. These severance benefits include: (1) a lump sum payment equal to two years annual base salary plus two times his target annual bonus for one year, (2) the vesting of any of his restricted stock that was granted on or after April 1, 2006, (3) the provision for a 24 month period of certain welfare plan benefits provided to other officers, including disability and life insurance, and (4) the provision of COBRA rights and 12 months of related premiums. In addition, the Agreement provides for certain buyer employment protection benefits in the event that Mr. Radtke accepts a position with a buyer of the E&P assets, and within two years is terminated other than for cause.
Payment of any of the benefits under the Agreement is conditioned on Mr. Radtkes agreement not to disclose any confidential information or trade secrets of Dominion and his execution of a general release of claims. This description of the Agreement is a summary only and is qualified by reference to the Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 31, 2007

Exhibit 10.1
January 26, 2007
Mr. Duane Radtke
Dear Duane:
As you know, Dominion has announced that it is considering various strategic alternatives in connection with its exploration and production business. Your leadership of this business has been very important to Dominion. Because of your valuable services in the past and your importance during the upcoming period, this letter is to inform you about the terms of a special retention package (the special package) for you in connection with this process.
You have an Employment Continuity Agreement with Dominion; however, the alternatives under consideration for the E&P business would not bring the continuity agreement into effect. Therefore, Dominion is providing you with this special package to encourage you to remain with Dominion during this process.
For purposes of this special package, the term "End Date" means the date six months after the conclusion of Dominions strategic process with the E&P business, which will be either the last closing date resulting in a substantial portion of the E&P assets being sold, or Dominions public announcement that no material sales will occur. This special package will expire on the first anniversary of the End Date or the date on which you terminate employment with Dominion, if earlier. Dominion will continue to honor any unpaid benefits owed under this special package when the package expires, including the Buyer Employment Protection Benefits.
To receive the Retention Benefits of the special package, in general you must remain employed with Dominion until the End Date, unless (i) your employment terminates prior to the End Date in a Covered Termination or (ii) your employment terminates because of your acceptance of a position with a buyer of all or substantially all or a substantial portion
of the E&P business
(the "Buyer").
For purposes of this agreement, a "Covered Termination" means either of the following:
(A)
 
Dominion terminates your employment other than for Cause (as defined in your Employment Continuity Agreement); or
(B)
 
you terminate your employment with Dominions permission to accept a position with an employer
other than
the Buyer.
Please note that, for purposes of (B), Dominion will
not
give its permission for any early termination of your employment under this agreement to allow you to accept a position with an employer other than the Buyer if you have previously received a qualifying offer from the Buyer. A "qualifying offer" for this purpose is an offer that Dominion has authorized you to take, that provides you with comparable compensation and benefits to your Dominion compensation and benefits in the aggregate, and that does not require you to relocate from your current employment area by more than 50 miles.
A Covered Termination does not occur if you terminate your employment to accept a position with an employer other than the Buyer without Dominions permission
.
If you terminate your employment with Dominion prior to the End Date to accept a position with the Buyer (with or without a qualifying offer from the Buyer), you will be provided with the Buyer Employment Protection benefits described in the attached schedule, subject to the conditions stated therein.
You will receive the Severance Benefits of the special package if, on or after the End Date, Dominion terminates your employment other than for Cause or if you have a
Constructive Termination
(as defined in your Employment Continuity Agreement) in connection with the strategic process.
During the period while this special package is in effect, your current compensation package will continue, including your eligibility for long term incentive awards, annual bonus, and merit increases.
Under this special package, you may receive different amounts under different circumstances. To receive any payment, you must satisfy all of the requirements listed below and otherwise included in the letter and schedule. The benefits will be in place of any other severance plan provided by Dominion.
Impact on Outstanding Equity Grants and Other Programs
 
Note that this special package does not (i) override the vesting conditions you otherwise have under any outstanding equity grant or award to the extent those conditions would be more beneficial to you than the conditions in this special package or (ii) otherwise modify the terms of any outstanding equity grant or award, except to the extent specifically provided herein. Also, the benefits provided under this special package are in addition to, not in place of, any retirement benefits you may otherwise be eligible to receive under any Dominion retirement plan or program.
 
You may be eligible for payments from a "success pool" or other payments established by Dominion in connection with the successful conclusion of the strategic process, in which case the benefits under this special package will be in addition to, not in place of, those additional payments.
 
Conditions to Payment
 
As a condition of receiving any payments or benefits under this special package, you must agree to never directly or indirectly disclose to any third party or use for your own personal benefit any confidential information or trade secret of Dominion except and to the extent (a) disclosure is ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction or (b) the information otherwise becomes public through no action of your own. You must also sign and not revoke a general release of claims against Dominion and all affiliates (including any entities divested as part of any sale of all or part of the E&P business) in a form satisfactory to Dominion.
 
Taxes and Other Matters
 
If you owe any change-in-control excise taxes on amounts payable under this special package, you will receive the same benefits as are provided in Article VI of your Employment Continuity Agreement with respect to those excise taxes.
 
Dominion reserves the right to interpret the provisions of this special package (including, without limitation, the right to make changes to the benefits and payment terms under the special package to comply with applicable tax or other laws). Note in particular that if Dominion determines that you are a "specified employee" (as defined under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code) as of the date of your termination of employment with Dominion, payment of certain benefits (including the severance benefit described in the attached schedule, if you are eligible for it, and any other benefits subject to Section 409A) will be delayed for six months following your termination of employment.
 
Dominion appreciates your past efforts on behalf of the company and your continuing efforts during this time of transition. If you have any questions about this special package, please contact the Executive Compensation Department.
 
Sincerely,
 
/s/ Thomas F. Farrell, II
Thomas F. Farrell, II, President & Chief Executive Officer
Dominion Resources, Inc.
 
 
Retention Benefits
 
The following bulleted Retention Benefit will be provided to you if:
 
(A) you remain employed with Dominion until the End Date,
 
(B) you terminate your employment with Dominion prior to the End Date to accept a position with the Buyer (with or without a qualifying offer from the Buyer) with Dominions written permission, or
 
(C) your employment terminates prior to the End Date in a Covered Termination.
 
 
If your employment terminates under either (B) or (C) above, you will also receive the following benefit unless it was already provided as a Severance Benefit:
 
For Dominions New Executive Supplemental Retirement Plan and New Benefit Restoration Plan or any successor or replacement plans (the Supplemental Plans), your credited service will be your actual credited service plus the additional service that you would have accrued if you had remained employed until age 62 and your age will be deemed to be age 62. With this additional credited service and deemed age, you will be eligible for the supplemental retirement benefits provided under your employment agreement that would be earned and/or payable at age 62, including any associated executive life and retiree medical benefits; and a lifetime benefit under the New Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.
 
Severance Benefits
 
The following bulleted Severance Benefits will be provided to you if, in connection with the strategic process,
 
(A) before, on or after the End Date, Dominion terminates your employment other than for Cause, or
 
(B) on or after the End Date, you have a
Constructive Termination
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Buyer Employment Protection Benefits
 
The following bulleted Buyer Employment Protection Benefits will be provided to you if you terminate your employment with Dominion prior to the End Date to accept a position with the Buyer (with or without a qualifying offer from the Buyer) with Dominions written permission:
 
 
The following bulleted Buyer Employment Protection Benefits (or,
if higher, the severance benefits that would be payable to you under any severance program maintained by the Buyer
) will be provided to you if (i) you terminate your employment with Dominion prior to the End Date to accept a position with the Buyer (with or without a qualifying offer from the Buyer), and (ii) within two years of the date of your termination with Dominion (your "employment protection period"):
 
(A) the Buyer terminates your employment other than for Cause, or
 
(B) you have a Constructive Termination with the Buyer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


