FILE:D/D-8K-20070801175247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
In November 2006, we announced our decision to pursue the disposition of all of our non-Appalachian natural gas and oil exploration and production (E&P) operations and assets. At December 31, 2006, our non-Appalachian natural gas and oil assets included about 5.5 trillion cubic feet of proved reserves. The Appalachian assets that we will retain constituted approximately 15% of our total reserves at December 31, 2006.
In connection with this process, on July 31, 2007, we completed the sale to HighMount Exploration & Production LLC, a newly formed subsidiary of Loews Corporation, of our E&P operations in the Alabama, Michigan and Permian basins for approximately $4.0 billion. These operations included approximately 2.5 trillion cubic feet equivalent (Tcfe) of proved natural gas and oil reserves at December 31, 2006.
Also on July 31, 2007, we completed the sale to XTO Energy Inc., of our E&P operations in the Gulf Coast, Rockies, South Louisiana and San Juan basin of New Mexico for approximately $2.5 billion. These operations included approximately 1 Tcfe of proved natural gas and oil reserves at December 31, 2006.
Additionally, we have sold or entered into agreements to sell the following E&P operations:
 
 
 
With the announcement of the Mid-Continent sale in July, we have now sold or agreed to sell all of the E&P operations that we plan to divest. We have previously announced our intention to use the after-tax proceeds from these dispositions to reduce our outstanding debt by between $3.2 billion to $3.5 billion and to use the remaining net proceeds for repurchasing shares of our common stock.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information
On July 31, 2007, we completed the sale to HighMount Exploration & Production LLC., a newly formed subsidiary of Loews Corporation, of our E&P operations in the Alabama, Michigan and Permian basins for approximately $4.0 billion. Also on July 31, 2007, we completed the sale to XTO Energy Inc., of our E&P operations in the Gulf Coast, Rockies, South Louisiana and San Juan basin of New Mexico for approximately $2.5 billion. Additionally, we have sold or entered into agreements to sell the remainder of our non-Appalachian E&P operations. The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet of Dominion Resources, Inc. (Dominion) reflects the disposition of all of our non-Appalachian E&P operations as if it had occurred on March 31, 2007. The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of income for the three months ended March 31, 2007 and for the year ended December 31, 2006, reflect the disposition of all of our non-Appalachian E&P operations as if it had occurred on January 1, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
The pro forma adjustments are based on the results of our non-Appalachian E&P operations during the periods presented, the impact of the disposition of these operations and other transactions resulting from the disposition. The pro forma adjustments have been made to illustrate the anticipated financial impact of the disposition upon Dominion and are based upon available information and assumptions that Dominion believes to be reasonable at the date of this filing. Consequently, the pro forma financial information presented is not necessarily indicative of the consolidated results of operations that would have been reported had the transaction actually occurred on the dates presented. Moreover, the pro forma financial information does not purport to indicate the future results that Dominion will experience.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nonrecurring items related to the dispositions
The following nonrecurring items resulting from the disposition of our non-Appalachian E&P operations have not been reflected in the accompanying condensed pro form consolidated statements of income:
The disposition of our non-Appalachian E&P operations will result in an initial pre-tax charge of approximately $580 million, which will be reported in our second quarter 2007 earnings. This reflects the discontinuance of hedge accounting for certain cash flow hedges related to our non-Appalachian E&P operations since it became probable that the forecasted sales of gas and oil will not occur. In connection with the discontinuance of hedge accounting for these contracts, we will reclassify approximately $580 million of pre-tax losses from AOCI to earnings. We have entered into offsetting positions for these gas and oil derivatives that will minimize the volatility that would have resulted from these contracts being marked to market through earnings.
As a result of the disposition of certain of our onshore E&P operations to Loews Corporation and XTO Energy, Inc., we expect to pay approximately $250 million in connection with the termination of certain volumetric production payment agreements through which we had sold a fixed-term overriding royalty interest in certain of our natural gas reserves. The termination of these contracts will result in a pre-tax charge of approximately $139 million. We are retaining the repurchased fixed-term overriding royalty interests formerly associated with the volumetric production payment agreements.
We expect to recognize a pre-tax gain of between approximately $4.0 billion to $4.5 billion from the disposition of our non-Appalachian E&P operations. This includes expenses related to the disposition plan of between approximately $150 million and $175 million. These expenses include cash expenditures for transaction costs, including employee-related, legal and other costs. These amounts are exclusive of costs associated with the discontinuance of hedge accounting and termination of volumetric production payments described above. The actual gain will depend on the book values of the disposed properties and related liabilities at the closing date.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 1, 2007
 


