FILE:D/D-8K-20080130094453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2008 Annual Incentive Plan
On January 24, 2008, the Dominion Resources, Inc. (Dominion) Compensation, Governance and Nominating Committee (CGN Committee) recommended to the Dominion Board of Directors, and on January 25, 2008, the Dominion Board of Directors approved, the 2008 Annual Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Under the Plan, Dominion's officers are eligible for an annual performance-based award. The Plan will be funded based on the achievement of consolidated operating earnings goals. For those Dominion officers that are among the top most highly compensated group for 2008, including all of Dominion's named executive officers (other than Mr. Duane C. Radtke who retired in 2007), pay-out of incentives under the Plan will be based solely on the achievement of the funding goals, with the CGN Committee having the discretion to lower actual pay-outs as deemed appropriate based on achievement of business unit financial, safety and Six Sigma goals. For all other officers and employees, awards will be distributed out of the available funding based on the achievement of certain pay-out goals established for them by the CGN Committee. For officers who serve as Business Unit-Chief Executive Officers, the payout goals are weighted as follows: 60% - consolidated operating earnings; 30% - business unit operating earnings; 5% safety; and 5% Six Sigma cost savings goals. For all other non-executive officers, the pay-out goals are weighted as follows: 40% - consolidated operating earnings; 30% - business unit operating earnings; 25% operating and stewardship goals (including a 5% safety goal); and 5% Six Sigma cost savings goals. Actual bonuses may exceed the target amount if additional consolidated operating earnings funding goals are achieved.
Under the Plan, the target amounts of the incentive awards are based on a percentage of base salary. For 2008, the target percentages of base salary for Dominion's named executive officers are as follows: President and Chief Executive Officer  125%; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  95%; President and Chief Executive Officer  Dominion Generation Business Unit  95%; and President and Chief Executive Officer  Dominion Virginia Power Business Unit  90%.
2006 Long-Term Compensation Program
Dominion's 2006 Long-Term Compensation Program, approved on March 31, 2006 (the "2006 LTIP"), was awarded to officers, including Dominion's executive officers, pursuant to Dominion's 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan. The 2006 LTIP consists of two components of equal value: a restricted stock grant and a cash-based performance grant. The restricted stock is subject to a three-year cliff vesting period, while payout of the performance grant will be based on the achievement of two performance metrics: total shareholder return versus our peer group ("TSR") and return on invested capital ("ROIC").
On January 24, 2008, the CGN Committee approved an amendment to the ROIC goal for executive officers under the 2006 LTIP to reflect the revised 2007 budget, after adjustments relating to the divestiture of substantially all of our exploration and production assets in 2007. There was no change in the TSR goal. A Form of the Performance Grant Agreement, including the revised ROIC targets, is included in Exhibit 10.1. The CGN Committee also approved payout of the performance grant under the 2006 LTIP based upon the adjusted ROIC goal.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 30, 2008

Exhibit 10.1
THIS AGREEMENT, dated between DOMINION RESOURCES, INC., a Virginia Company (the "Company") and ("Participant"), is made pursuant and subject to the provisions of the Dominion Resources, Inc. 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") to the extent provided below. All terms used herein that are defined in the Plan have the same meaning given them in the Plan. The Performance Grant will be administered by the Organization, Compensation and Nominating Committee ("OCN Committee") of the Company's Board of Directors.
            
            
 
 
Total Shareholder Return Performance ("TSR Performance") shall determine fifty percent (50%) of the Target Amount ("TSR Percentage"). TSR Performance is defined in Exhibit A. The Performance Period for the TSR Performance is the period beginning April 1, 2006 and ending December 31, 2007. The portion of the 50% of the Target Amount that will be paid out, if any, is based on the following table.
 
To the extent that the Company's TSR Performance ranks in a percentile within the 1st, 2nd or 3rd Quartiles of Relative TSR Performance, then the TSR Percentage Payout shall be interpolated between the top and bottom of the Percentage Payout of TSR Percentage range for that Quartile.
No payment will be made if the TSR Performance is in the 4th Quartile, except that a payment of 25% of the TSR Percentage shall be made if the Company's TSR Performance was at least % on a compounded annual basis for the Performance Period.
        
 
Return on Invested Capital Performance ("ROIC Performance") shall determine fifty percent (50%) of the Target Amount ("ROIC Percentage"). ROIC Performance is defined in Exhibit A. The Performance Period for the ROIC Performance is the period beginning January 1, 2006 and ending December 31, 2007. The portion of the 50% of the Target Amount that will be paid out is based on the following table.
 
To the extent that the Company's ROIC Performance is between 7.2% and 7.8%, then the ROIC Percentage payout shall be interpolated between the top and bottom of the applicable Percentage Payout of ROIC Percentage range set forth above.
The ROIC Performance in the table is based on the Company's actual 2006 budget and the projected 2007 budget at the date of grant. The ROIC Performance may be adjusted by the OCN Committee based on the Company's actual 2007 budget. Any adjustments to the ROIC Performance will be communicated to the Participant when made.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Company has caused this Agreement to be signed by a duly authorized officer.
 
 
EXHIBIT A
The TSR Performance will be measured based on where the Company's total shareholder return during the Performance Period ranks in relation to the total shareholder returns of the Comparison Companies during such period. In general, Total Shareholder Return consists of the difference between the value of a share of common stock at the beginning and end of the Performance Period, plus the value of dividends paid as if reinvested in stock and other appropriate adjustments for such events as stock splits. For purposes of TSR Performance, the total shareholder return of the Company and the Comparison Companies will be the total shareholder return as calculated by Bloomberg L.P. As soon as practicable after the completion of the Performance Period, the total shareholder returns of the Comparison Companies will be obtained from Bloomberg L.P. and ranked from highest to lowest. The Company's total shareholder return will then be ranked in terms of which percentile it would have placed in among the Comparison Companies.
 
ROIC shall mean Total Return divided by Average Invested Capital for the two-year Performance Period.
Total Return is Operating Earnings (as disclosed on the Company's earnings report filed on Form 8-K) + After-tax Interest & PSST Expenses + Preferred Dividends, all determined for the two-year Performance Period.
Average Invested Capital is the Average Balances for Long & Short-term Debt + PSST + MC + Preferred Equity + (Common Equity excluding AOCI). The Average Balances for a year are calculated by performing the calculation at the end of each month during the fiscal year plus the last month of the prior fiscal year and then averaging those amounts over 13 months. For the final calculation, the Average Invested Capital for 2006 and 2007 are combined.
PSST is the preferred securities of subsidiary trusts shown as junior subordinated notes payable to affiliated trusts (five subsidiary capital trusts) on the Company's financial statements.
MC is mandatory convertible debt.
AOCI is accumulated other comprehensive income as shown on the Company's financial statements.


