FILE:D/D-8K-20080402163654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
                 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangement of Certain Officers.
On March 27, 2008, the Dominion Resources, Inc. (Dominion) Compensation, Governance and Nominating (CGN) Committee approved the 2008 Long-Term Compensation Program (the Program) for its officers, including those officers named in Dominions 2008 Proxy Statement.  The Program is being awarded pursuant to Dominions 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan and consists of two components of equal value: a restricted stock grant and a cash-based performance grant. The restricted stock is subject to a three-year cliff vesting period, while payout of the performance grant will be based on the achievement of three performance metrics: total shareholder return versus the 2008 peer group (weighted 50%), return on invested capital (weighted 40%) and book value per share (weighted 10%).  Payout on the performance grant will be made by March 15, 2010, with the amount of the award to vary depending on the level of achievement of the performance metrics.
The description of the Program is a summary only and is qualified by reference to the form of 2008 Restricted Stock Award Agreement and 2008 Performance Grant Plan, which are filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively.
Also on March 27, 2008, the CGN Committee approved an additional award of 24,486 shares of restricted stock to Thomas N. Chewning, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  The restricted stock award was made on April 1, 2008 pursuant to Dominions 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan.  The restricted shares are subject to a two-year cliff vesting with all shares vesting on April 1, 2010 (the Vesting Date).  Vesting of the shares may accelerate fully or on a pro-rated basis upon the occurrence of certain events as outlined in the restricted stock award.
This description of the restricted stock award is a summary only and is qualified by reference to the Restricted Stock Award Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.3.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  April 2, 2008

Exhibit 10.1
THIS AGREEMENT, dated April 1, 2008, between DOMINION RESOURCES, INC., a Virginia Corporation (the "Company") and  ("Participant"), is made pursuant and subject to the provisions of the Dominion Resources, Inc. 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan").  All terms used in this Agreement that are defined in the Plan have the same meaning given to such terms in the Plan.
[Insert Name]
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
           The purpose of this Plan is to set forth the terms of 2008 Performance Grants awarded pursuant to the Dominion Resources, Inc. 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan. This Plan contains the Performance Goals for the awards, the Performance Criteria, the target and maximum amounts payable, and other applicable terms and conditions.
1.
Purpose.   
           Capitalized terms used in this Plan not defined in this Section 2 will have the meaning assigned to such terms in the Dominion Resources, Inc. 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan.
2.
Definitions.  
a.           .   For purposes of this Plan, the term Cause will have the meaning assigned to that term under a Participants Employment Continuity Agreement with the Company, as such Agreement may be amended from time to time.
Cause
b.           .  April 1, 2008.
Date of Grant
c.           .  The Committee will determine whether or not a Disability exists and its determination will be conclusive and binding on the Participant. To the extent a Performance Grant is subject to Code Section 409A, the Committees determination will be made in accordance with the requirements of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(4).
Disability or Disabled
d.           .  An officer of the Company or a Dominion Company who receives a Performance Grant on the Date of Grant.
Participant
e.           .  The 24-month period beginning on January 1, 2008 and ending on December 31, 2009.
Performance Period
f.           .    For purposes of this Plan, the term Retire or Retirement means termination of employment on a date when the Participant is eligible for early or normal retirement benefits under the terms of the Dominion Pension Plan, or would be eligible if any crediting of deemed additional years of age or service applicable to the Participant under the Companys Benefit Restoration Plan or New Benefit Restoration Plan was applied under the Dominion Pension Plan, as in effect at the time of the determination.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant will not be treated as eligible for retirement benefits for purposes of this Plan if the Chief Executive Officer of the Company determines, in his sole discretion, that the Participants retirement is detrimental to the Company.
Retire or Retirement
h.           .  The dollar amount designated on the Participants Performance Grant.
Target Amount
             A Participant will receive a written notice of the amount designated as the Participants Target Amount for the Performance Grant payable under the terms of this Plan.  The actual payout may be from 0% to 200% of the Target Amount, depending on the achievement of the Performance Goals.
3.
Performance Grants.
           .  Upon the completion of the Performance Period, the Committee will determine the Performance Goal achievement of the Performance Criteria described in Section 6.  The Company will then calculate the amount of each Participants Performance Grant based on such Performance Goal achievement.  Except as provided in Sections 7(b) or 8, payout of Performance Grants will be made as soon as administratively feasible after the end of the Performance Period.  In no event will payment be made later than March 15, 2010.
4.
Performance Achievement and Time of Payment
             Except as provided in Sections 7(b) or 8, a Participant's right to payout of a Performance Grant will be forfeited if the Participants employment with the Company or a Dominion Company terminates before the end of the Performance Period.
5.
Forfeiture.
           Payout of Performance Grants will be based on the Performance Goal achievement described in this Section 6 of the three Performance Criteria defined in Exhibit A.
6.
Performance Goals.  
a.           .  Total Shareholder Return Performance (TSR Performance) will determine fifty percent (50%) of the Target Amount (TSR Percentage).  TSR Performance is defined in Exhibit A.  The TSR Percentage of the Target Amount that will be paid out, if any, is based on the following table:
TSR Performance
To the extent that the Companys TSR Performance ranks in a percentile within the Top, 2nd or 3rd Quartiles of Relative TSR Performance, then the TSR Percentage Payout will be interpolated between the top and bottom of the Percentage Payout of TSR Percentage range for that Quartile.  No payment will be made if the TSR Performance is in the 4th Quartile, except that a payment of 25% of the TSR Percentage will be made if the Companys TSR Performance was at least 10% on a compounded annual basis for the Performance Period.
b.           .  Return on Invested Capital Performance (ROIC Performance) will determine forty percent (40%) of the Target Amount (ROIC Percentage).  ROIC Performance is defined in Exhibit A.  The ROIC Percentage of the Target Amount that will be paid out, if any, is based on the following table:
ROIC Performance
To the extent that the Companys ROIC Performance is greater than 8.60% and less than 8.90%, then the ROIC Percentage payout will be interpolated between the top and bottom of the applicable Percentage Payout of ROIC Percentage range set forth above.
c.           .  Book Value per Share Performance (Book Value Performance) will determine ten percent (10%) of the Target Amount (Book Value Percentage).  Book Value Performance is defined in Exhibit A. The Book Value Percentage of the Target Amount that will be paid out, if any, is based on the following table:
Book Value per Share Performance
To the extent that the Companys Book Value Performance is greater than $20.50 and less than $20.80, then the Book Value Percentage payout will be interpolated between the top and bottom of the applicable Percentage Payout of Book Value Percentage range set forth above.
7.           Retirement, Termination without Cause, Death or Disability.
a.           .  If a Participant Retires during the Performance Period or if a Participants employment is involuntarily  terminated by the Company or a Dominion Company without Cause during the Performance Period and the Participant would have been eligible for a payment if the Participant had remained employed until the end of the Performance Period, the Participant will receive a pro-rated payout of the Participants Performance Grant multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of complete calendar months from the Date of Grant to the Participants termination of employment, and the denominator of which is the number of complete calendar months between the Date of Grant and December 31, 2009.  Payment will be made after the end of the Performance Period at the time provided in Section 4 based on the Performance Goal achievement approved by the Committee.  If the Participant Retires, however, payment will be conditioned on a determination by the Companys Chief Executive Officer, in his sole discretion, that the Participants Retirement is not detrimental to the Company.
Retirement or Involuntary Termination without Cause
b.           .  If a Participant dies or becomes Disabled during the Performance Period, the Participant or the Participants successor will receive a lump sum cash payment equal to the product of (i) and (ii) where
Death or Disability
Payment under this paragraph 7(b) will be made as soon as administratively feasibleafter the date of the Participants death or termination of employment due to Disability; provided, however, that payment will be made no earlier than six months after the Participants termination other than for death if the Performance Grant is subject to Code Section 409A and the Participant is a Specified Employee (within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i)).
 
           Upon a Change of Control, the Participant will receive a lump sum cash payment equal to the greater of (i) the Target Amount or (ii) the total payout that would be made at the end of the Performance Period if the predicted performance used for determining the compensation cost recognized by the Company for the Participants Performance Grant for the latest financial statement filed with the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q immediately prior to the Change of Control was the actual performance for the Performance Period.  Payment will be made as soon as administratively feasible following the Change of Control date.
8.
Change of Control.  
           Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, if the Participants employment with the Company is terminated for Cause, the Participant will forfeit all rights to his or her Performance Grant.
9.
Termination for Cause.  
10.           Miscellaneous.
a.           .  Except as provided in Sections 7(b) or 8, a Performance Grant is not transferable and is subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture until the end of the Performance Period.
Nontransferability
b.           .  A Performance Grant does not confer upon a Participant any right with respect to continuance of employment by the Company, nor will it interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate a Participant's employment at any time.
No Right to Continued Employment
c.           .  The Company will withhold Applicable Withholding Taxes from the payout of Performance Grants.
Tax Withholding
d.           .  Performance Grants are intended to constitute qualified performance-based compensation within the meaning of section 1.162-27(e) of the Income Tax Regulations.  The Committee will certify the Performance Criteria.  To the maximum extent possible, this Plan will be interpreted and construed in accordance with this subsection 10(d).
Application of Code Section 162(m)
e.           .  This Plan shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, without regard to its choice of law provisions.
Governing Law
f.           .  In the event of any material conflict between the provisions of the 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan and the provisions of this Plan, the provisions of the 2005 Incentive Compensation
Conflicts
Plan will govern.  All references to the 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan in this Plan will mean the 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan as in effect on the Effective Date.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
The TSR Performance will be measured based on where the Companys total shareholder return during the Performance Period ranks in relation to the total shareholder returns of the Comparison Companies during such period.  In general, Total Shareholder Return consists of the difference between the value of a share of common stock at the beginning and end of the Performance Period, plus the value of dividends paid as if reinvested in stock and other appropriate adjustments for such events as stock splits.  For purposes of TSR Performance, the total shareholder return of the Company and the Comparison Companies will be the total shareholder return as calculated by Bloomberg L.P.  As soon as practicable after the completion of the Performance Period, the total shareholder returns of the Comparison Companies will be obtained from Bloomberg L.P. and ranked from highest to lowest.  The Companys total shareholder return will then be ranked in terms of which percentile it would have placed in among the Comparison Companies.
The Comparison Companies are:
If a Comparison Company ceases to be a publicly traded entity, is acquired by another entity, or is merged out of existence during the Performance Period, the Comparison Company will removed from the list of Comparison Companies.
Return on Invested Capital
The following terms are used to calculate ROIC for purposes of the 2008 Performance Grants:
means Total Return divided by Average Invested Capital.  Performance will be calculated for the two successive fiscal years within the Performance Period, added together and then divided by two to arrive at an annual average ROIC for the Performance Period.
ROIC
means Operating Earnings plus After-tax Interest & Related Charges, all determined for the two successive calendar years within the Performance Period.
Total Return
means operating earnings (as disclosed on the Companys earnings report furnished on Form 8-K for the applicable fiscal year) without taking into account the impact of potential outcomes that could be prescribed by regulation under Virginia law that are different than the assumptions included in the Companys actual 2008 budget and the projected 2009 budget calculations in effect immediately prior to the Date of Grant (as described in A and B below).
Operating Earnings
means the Average Balances for Long & Short-term Debt plus Preferred Equity plus Common Shareholders Equity (as calculated based on the exclusion of the items described below).  The Average Balances for a year are calculated by performing the calculation at the end of each month during the fiscal year plus the last month of the prior fiscal year and then averaging those amounts over 13 months.
Average Invested Capital
will be calculated by excluding (i) accumulated other comprehensive income (as shown on the Companys financial statements during the Performance Period): (ii) impacts from changes in accounting principles that were not prescribed as of the Date of Grant; and (iii) the impact of potential outcomes that could be prescribed by regulation under Virginia law that are different than the assumptions included in the Companys actual 2008 budget and the projected 2009 budget calculations in effect immediately prior to the Date of Grant (as described in A and B below).
Common Shareholders Equity
:
Actual 2008 budget and Projected 2009 budget assumptions
Book Value per Share Performance will be calculated as Common Shareholders Equity (as calculated based on the exclusion of the items described below), divided by the number of outstanding, unrestricted shares at December 31, 2009.
will be calculated by excluding (i) accumulated other comprehensive income (as shown on the Companys financial statements during the Performance Period): (ii) impacts from changes in accounting principles that were not prescribed as of the Date of Grant; and (iii) the impact of potential outcomes that could be prescribed by regulation under Virginia law that are different than the assumptions included in the Companys actual 2008 budget and the projected 2009 budget calculations in effect immediately prior to the Date of Grant (as described in A and B below).
Common Shareholders Equity
:
Actual 2008 budget and Projected 2009 budget assumptions

Exhibit 10.3
THIS AGREEMENT, dated April 1, 2008, between DOMINION RESOURCES, INC., a Virginia Corporation (the "Company") and Thomas N. Chewning ("Participant"), is made pursuant and subject to the provisions of the Dominion Resources, Inc. 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan").  All terms used in this Agreement that are defined in the Plan have the same meaning given to such terms in the Plan.
7.           .
Terms and Conditions
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Company has caused this Agreement to be signed by a duly authorized officer as of the date first written above.


