FILE:D/D-8K-20100520160651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 19, 2010, Dominion Resources, Inc., (Dominion or the Company) entered into a supplemental retirement agreement with Mark F. McGettrick, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, to restate and clarify the terms of a supplemental retirement agreement dated April 22, 2005.  Mr. McGettrick will earn a lifetime benefit under the New Executive Supplemental Retirement Plan if he remains employed as an officer of the Company until November 14, 2012. As consideration for this benefit, Mr. McGettrick has agreed not to compete with Dominion for a two-year period following retirement. This agreement ensures that his knowledge and services will not be available to competitors for two years following his retirement date.
 
 
This description of the supplemental retirement agreement is a summary only and is qualified by reference to the Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 5.03.  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
In 2001, in connection with the formation of a former telecommunications subsidiary, Dominion established and issued Series A Preferred Stock.  Subsequently in 2004, the outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock were retired.  As such, the Articles of Amendment establishing the Series A Preferred Stock are now obsolete and are no longer required. Effective May 18, 2010, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the removal of the Articles of Amendment to Dominions Articles of Incorporation that established its Series A Preferred Stock.
In connection with Dominions Annual Meeting of Shareholders that was held on May 18, 2010, shareholders approved the amendments to Dominions Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws as presented in its 2010 Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on April 1, 2010 (the Proxy).  The voting results of each amendment presented for shareholder approval are included in Item 5.07 of this Form 8-K.
The text of the foregoing amendments to Dominions Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws is included in the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws which are filed herewith as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2.
Item 5.07.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Our Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on May 18, 2010.  Results of items presented for voting are listed below.
All director nominees were elected to the Board of Directors for a one-year term or until next years annual meeting. The votes were as follows:
 
 
The appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as our independent auditors for 2010 was ratified by shareholders as follows:
Shareholders approved Item 3 of the Proxy providing for an amendment to Article V of the Articles of Incorporation related to voting provisions.  The vote was as follows:
Shareholders approved Item 4 of the Proxy providing for an amendment to Article XXXII of the Bylaws related to voting provisions.  The vote was as follows:
Shareholders approved Item 5 of the Proxy providing for an amendment to Article V of the Articles of Incorporation related to setting the size of the board of directors.  The vote was as follows:
Shareholders approved Item 6 of the Proxy providing for an amendment to Article V of the Articles of Incorporation related to removal of a director for cause.  The vote was as follows:
Shareholders approved Item 7 of the Proxy providing for an amendment to Article III of the Articles of Incorporation related to clarification of certain shareholder meeting provisions.  The vote was as follows:
A shareholder proposal requesting the Company to set and pursue a Company goal to achieve 20% renewable electricity energy generation by 2022 was not approved.  The vote was as follows:
A shareholder proposal urging the Board to reject plans to construct a new nuclear reactor at North Anna power station was not approved.  The vote was as follows:
 
 
A shareholder proposal regarding an advisory vote on executive compensation was not approved.  The vote was as follows:
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  May 20, 2010
 

 
 
 
 
Article I.                      Name
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
  0; 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
The name of the Corporation is Dominion Resources, Inc.
Article II.                    Purpose
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
The purpose for which the Corporation is organized is to transact any and all lawful business, not required to be specifically stated in the
Articles
of Incorporation, for which corporations may be incorporated under the Virginia Stock Corporation Act.
Article III.                  Stock
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
   
   
Division A  Common Stock
The Corporation shall have authority to issue 1,000,000,000 shares of Common Stock without par value.
Dividends may be paid upon the Common Stock out of any assets of the Corporation available for dividends remaining after full dividends on the outstanding Preferred Stock at the dividend rate or rates therefor, together with the full additional amount required by any participation right, with respect to all past dividend periods and the current dividend period shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment and all mandatory sinking fund payments that shall have become due in respect of any series of the Preferred Stock shall have been made.
In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation the Board of Directors may, after satisfaction of the rights of the holders of all shares of Preferred Stock, or the deposit in trust of money adequate for such satisfaction, distribute in kind to the holders of the Common Stock all then remaining assets of the Corporation or may sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or any of such remaining assets of the Corporation and receive payment therefor wholly or partly in cash and/or in stock and/or in obligations and may sell all or any part of the consideration received therefor and distribute all or the balance thereof in kind to the holders of the Common Stock.
The holders of the Common Stock shall, to the exclusion of the holders of the Preferred Stock, have the sole and full power to vote for the election of directors and for all other purposes without limitation except only as otherwise recited or provided in the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation applicable to the Preferred Stock.
Subject to the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation applicable to the Preferred Stock, the Corporation may from time to time purchase or otherwise acquire for a consideration or redeem (if permitted by the terms thereof) shares of Common Stock or shares of any other class of stock hereafter created ranking junior to the Preferred Stock in respect of dividends or assets and any shares so purchased or acquired may be held or disposed of by the Corporation from time to time for its corporate purposes or may be retired as provided by law.
Division B  Preferred Stock
The Corporation shall have authority to issue 20,000,000 shares of
Preferred Stock.
The Board of Directors is hereby empowered to cause any class of the
Preferred Stock of the Corporation to be issued in series with such of the variations permitted by clauses (a)-(k) below, as shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
The shares of Preferred Stock of different classes or series may vary as to:
 
 
In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, after there shall have been paid to or set aside for the holders of the Preferred Stock the full preferential amounts to which they are respectively entitled under the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation applicable to the Preferred Stock, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have no claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation.
The powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of each class or series of Preferred Stock, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, may differ from those of any and all other classes and series at any time outstanding. All shares of Preferred Stock of each series shall be equal in all respects.
Division C  General Provisions
The number of authorized shares of capital stock of the Corporation, or the amount of capital represented thereby, may be increased or decreased in the manner and subject to the conditions and limitations prescribed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, as they now and may hereafter exist, and subject to the provisions hereinafter contained.
Any and all shares of Preferred Stock and Common Stock of the Corporation, at the time authorized but not issued and outstanding, may be issued and disposed of by the Board of Directors of the Corporation in any lawful manner, consistently, in the case of shares of Preferred Stock, with the requirements set forth in the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation applicable to the Preferred Stock, at any time and from time to time, for such considerations as may be fixed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
The Board of Directors shall have authority from time to time to set apart out of any assets of the Corporation otherwise available for dividends a reserve or reserves as working capital or for any other proper purpose or purposes, and to reduce, abolish or add to any such reserve or reserves from time to time as said board may deem to be in the interests of the Corporation; and said board shall likewise have power to determine in its discretion what part of the assets of the Corporation available for dividends in excess of such reserve or reserves shall be declared as dividends and paid to the stockholders of the Corporation.
No stockholder shall have any pre-emptive right to acquire unissued shares of the Corporation or to acquire any securities convertible into or exchangeable for such shares or to acquire any options, warrants or rights to purchase such shares.
Subject to the provisions of these Articles of Incorporation applicable to the Preferred Stock, each holder of record of outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall, as to all matters in respect of which such stock has voting power, be entitled to one vote for each share of such stock held by him, as shown by the stock books of the Corporation, and may cast such vote in person or by proxy. Except as herein expressly provided, or mandatorily provided by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, a quorum of the shares entitled to vote on a matter at any meeting shall consist of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter and, if a quorum exists, action on a matter, other than election of directors, is approved if the votes cast favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the actio n.  Voting on the election of directors shall be governed by the Corporations bylaws and, if applicable, the provisions of any series of Preferred Stock, or in the absence of any such bylaws or Preferred Stock provisions, by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.  For matters on which the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia provide for a supermajority vote unless a corporations articles of incorporation otherwise provide, the vote required for the Corporations stockholders to approve such matters shall be a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter.
The Board of Directors of the Corporation may, by resolution, determine that only a part of the consideration which it is to receive for any shares
of stock which it shall issue shall be capital and that the balance of such consideration (not greater, however, than the excess of such consideration over the par value, if any, of such shares) shall be capital surplus of the Corporation.
Article IV.                  Offices
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
The principal office of the Corporation in the Commonwealth of Virginia is to be located in the City of Richmond.
Article V.                    Directors
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of not less than ten nor more than seventeen Directors, the exact number of Directors to be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by (i) the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors then in office or (ii) the stockholders of the Corporation by a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at an election of directors.  Each Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting and until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office.  No decrease in the number of directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent Director.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more classes or series of Preferred Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by class or series, to elect Directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such Directorships shall be governed by the terms of these Articles of Incorporation applicable thereto, and such Directors so elected shall not be divided into classes pursuant to this Article V unless expressly provided by such terms.
If the office of any Director shall become vacant, the Directors at the time in office, whether or not a quorum, may, by majority vote of the Directors then in office, choose a successor who shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders. Vacancies resulting from the increase in the number of Directors shall be filled in the same manner.
A Director of the Corporation may be removed by stockholders of the Corporation only for cause and only if the number of votes cast to remove the Director constitutes a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at an election of Directors of the voting group by which the Director was elected.
Advance notice of stockholder nominations for the election of Directors shall be given in the manner provided in the Bylaws of the Corporation.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Articles of Incorporation or
the Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter shall be required to amend, alter, change or repeal, or to adopt any provision inconsistent with the purpose and intent of, this Article V or Articles IV and XI of the Bylaws.
Article VI.                  Limit on Liability and Indemnification
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Dominion Resources, Inc.
Bylaws
As amended and restated, effective May 18, 2010
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Article I.                     Name.
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
 
The name of the Corporation is Dominion Resources, Inc.
   
   
   
 
Article II.                   Shareholders Meetings.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
 
All meetings of the Shareholders shall be held at such place, within or without of the Commonwealth, as provided in the notice of the meeting provided in accordance with Article V  Notice of Shareholders Meetings.
Article III.                 Annual Meeting.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  60; 
   
   
 
The Annual Meeting of the Shareholders shall be held on any date during the period May 1 through May 31 as determined by the Board of Directors from year to year.  In the event that such Annual Meeting is omitted by oversight or otherwise on this date, the Board of Directors shall cause a meeting to be held as soon thereafter as may be convenient, and any business transacted or elections held at such meeting shall be as valid as if transacted or held at the Annual Meeting.  Such subsequent meeting shall be called in the same manner as provided for in Article IV - Special Meetings.
Article IV.                 Special Meetings.
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
Special Meetings of the Shareholders shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, or a majority of the Directors.  Special Meetings of the Shareholders may also be held following the accrual or termination of voting rights of the Preferred Stock, whenever requested to be called in the manner provided in the Articles of Incorporation.
Article V.                   Notice of Shareholders Meetings.
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
Notice stating the place, day and hour of each Shareholders Meeting and, in the case of a Special Meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, or such longer period as is specified below, by, or at the direction of, the Board of Directors or its Chairman, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President or the Corporate Secretary or any Assistant Corporate Secretary, to each Shareholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.  Notice shall also be given to other Shareholders of record to the extent required by the Articles of Incorporation or by law.  Notice may be mailed to a Shareholder at the Shareholders registered address and such notice will be deemed to b e given when deposited in the United States mail, postage-paid, addressed to the Shareholder at the Shareholders address as it appears on the stock transfer books.  Alternatively, notice may be given to a Shareholder by electronic transmission as permitted by the Virginia Stock Corporation Act or any other applicable law and, in such case, shall be effective as provided therein.
Notice of a Shareholders Meeting to act on an amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, on a plan of merger or share exchange, on a proposed dissolution of the Corporation, or on a proposed sale, lease or exchange, or other disposition of assets that would leave the Corporation without a significant continuing business activity, as defined in Virginia Code Section 13.1-724, shall be given not less than 25 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting.  Any notice of a Shareholders Meeting to act on such a matter shall be accompanied by a copy of the applicable proposed amendment, plan of merger or share exchange, plan of dissolution or agreement effecting the disposition of assets.
If any Shareholders Meeting is adjourned to a different date, time or place notice need not be given if the new date, time or place is announced at the meeting before adjournment.  If a new record date for the adjourned meeting is fixed under Article IX, however, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given under this Article to Shareholders entitled to notice as of the new record date.  Any Shareholder who attends a meeting may be deemed to have waived notice of such meeting as provided in Virginia Code Section 13.1-659.
Article VI.                  Voting Lists.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
The officer or agent having charge of the share transfer books of the Corporation shall make, at least 10 days before each meeting of Shareholders, a complete list of the Shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting or any adjournment, with the address of and number of shares held by each.  Such list, for a period of 10 days prior to such meeting, shall be kept on file at the principal office of the Corporation.  Any person who shall have been a Shareholder of record for at least 6 months immediately preceding such persons demand or who shall be the holder of record of at least 5% of all the outstanding shares of the Corporation, upon demand stating with reasonable particularity the purpose of such demand, shall have the right to inspect such list, in person, for any proper purpose if such list is directly co nnected with such purpose, during usual business hours within the period of 10 days prior to the meeting.  Such list shall also be produced at the time and place of the meeting and shall be subject to the inspection of any Shareholder during the whole time of the meeting for the purposes thereof.
Article VII.                 Quorum.
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
   
At any meeting of the Shareholders, a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on a matter shall constitute a quorum.  A lesser interest may adjourn any meeting from time to time.  The provisions of this Article are, however, subject to the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation.
Article VIII.               Voting.
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
When a quorum is present at any meeting, action on a matter is approved if the votes cast favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action, unless the action is the election of directors, or is one upon which by express provision of law, the Articles of Incorporation, or these Bylaws, a larger or different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question.
Shareholders of record entitled to vote may vote at any meeting in person or by proxy executed in writing or by proxy authorized by any means permitted by the Virginia Stock Corporation Act or other applicable law.  In each case, such proxy must be authorized by the Shareholder or by the Shareholders duly authorized officer, director, employee or agent or attorney-in-fact, and shall be filed with or received by the inspector of election or other officer or agent of the Corporation authorized to tabulate votes for the meeting before being voted.  A proxy shall designate only one person as proxy, except that proxies executed pursuant to a general solicitation of proxies may designate one or more persons, any one of whom may act as proxies.  Proxies given for a specific Shareholders Meeting shall entitle the holders to vote at any adjournment of the meeting, but shall not be valid after the final adjournment of that meeting.  No proxy shall be valid after 11 months from its date unless the appointment form expressly provides for a longer period of validity. Shareholders entitled to vote may also be represented by an agent personally present, duly designated by power of attorney, with or without power of substitution, and such power of attorney shall be produced at the meeting on request.  Each holder of record of shares of any class shall, as to all matters in respect of which shares of any class have voting power, be entitled to one vote for each share of stock of such class standing in such holders name on the books of the Corporation.
 
Article IX.                   Record Date.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  & #160;
 
   
   
   
  
For the purpose of determining the Shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of Shareholders, or any adjournment, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend, or in order to make a determination of Shareholders for any other proper purpose, the Board of Directors may fix the date on which it takes such action or a future date as the record date for any such determination of Shareholders, provided that such date shall not in any case be more than 70 days prior to the date on which the meeting or other action, requiring such determination of Shareholders, is to take place.  The Board of Directors is authorized to delegate to the Corporate Secretary the determination of a record date for any meeting of Shareholders.  If no record date shall be fixed for the determination of Shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of Shareholders, or for the determination of the Shareholders entitled to receive payment of a dividend, the date on which notice of the meeting is mailed or the date on which the resolution of the Board of Directors declaring such dividend is adopted, as the case may be, shall be the record date for such determination of Shareholders in such cases.  A determination of Shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a Shareholders meeting is effective for any adjournment of the meeting unless the Board of Directors or Corporate Secretary, as the case may be, fixes a new record date, which shall be done if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting.
Article X.                   Shareholder Proposals.
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
0;  
   
   
At an Annual Meeting of the Shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting.  To be properly brought before an Annual Meeting of Shareholders, business must be (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a Shareholder who (i) is a Shareholder of record both at the time of giving the notice provided for in this Article X and at the time of the meeting, (ii) is entitled to vote at the meeting, and (iii) has complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Article X as to such business.  Except for proposals properly made in accordance with Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (as so amended and inclusive of such rules and regulations, the Exchange Act), and included in the notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, the foregoing clause (c) shall be the exclusive means for a Shareholder to propose business to be brought before an Annual Meeting of the Shareholders.
 
For business to be properly brought before an Annual Meeting by a Shareholder, the Shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation.  To be timely, a Shareholders notice must be delivered to, or mailed and received at the principal executive office of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the one-year anniversary of the preceding years Annual Meeting; , , that if the date of the Annual Meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the Shareholder to be timely must be so delivered, or mailed and received, not later than the 90 day prior to such Annual Meeting or, if later, the 10 day following the day on which public disclosure of the date of such Annual Meeting was first made.  In no event shall any adjournment of an Annual Meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of timely notice as described above.
provided
however
th
th
A Shareholders notice to the Corporate Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the Shareholder proposes to bring before the Annual Meeting:
(a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the Annual Meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented at the Annual Meeting, with respect to such business, and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting;
(b) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporations books, of such Shareholder and of any Shareholder Associated Person (as defined below);
(c) (i) the class and number of shares of the Corporations stock which are held of record or are beneficially owned (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) by such Shareholder and any Shareholder Associated Person; (ii) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of such Shareholders notice by, or on behalf of, such Shareholder or any Shareholder Associated Person, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such Shareholder or any Shareholder Associated Person with respect to shares of stock of the Corporation; and (iii) a writ ten agreement by such Shareholder to update and supplement the information required to be provided under this clause (c) by providing such information as of the record date for the Annual Meeting, with such information being provided to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive office of the Corporation not later than 10 days after such record date; and
(d) any material interest of the Shareholder or such Shareholder Associated Person in such business.
A Shareholder Associated Person of any Shareholder means (i) any person controlling, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such Shareholder, (ii) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the Corporation owned of record or beneficially by such Shareholder, and (iii) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Shareholder Associated Person.
Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an Annual Meeting except in accordance with this Article X.  In the event that a Shareholder attempts to bring business before an Annual Meeting without complying with the foregoing procedure, the Chairman of the meeting may declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and, if the Chairman shall so declare, such business shall not be transacted.
This Article X is expressly intended to apply to any business proposed to be brought before an Annual Meeting of Shareholders other than any proposal made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.  Nothing in this Article X shall be deemed to affect the rights of Shareholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporations proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.  The foregoing provisions are not applicable to Shareholder nominations of Directors, the process for which is set forth in Article XI.
Article XI.                  Board of Directors.
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
A Board of Directors shall be chosen by ballot at the Annual Meeting of the Shareholders or at any meeting held in lieu thereof as herein before provided.
Subject to the rights of holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, nominations for the election of Directors shall be made by the Board of Directors or a committee appointed by the Board of Directors or by any Shareholder entitled to vote in the election of Directors generally.  However, any Shareholder entitled to vote in the election of Directors generally may nominate one or more persons for election as Directors at a meeting only if written notice of such Shareholders intent to make such nomination or nominations has been given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Corporate Secretary of the Corporation not later than 60 days in advance of such meeting (except that, if public disclosure of the meetin g is made less than 70 days prior to the meeting, the notice need only be received within 10 days following such public disclosure).  Each such notice shall set forth: (a) the name and address of the Shareholder who intends to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated; (b) a representation that the Shareholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the Shareholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the Shareholder; (d) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such Shareholder as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, had the nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated by the Board of Directors; and (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a Director of the Corporation if so elected.  The Chairman of the meeting may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure.
Article XII.                Manner of Election of Directors.
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
  
Except as provided in Article XVIII, each director shall be elected by a majority of votes cast at any meeting of shareholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if the number of director nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares represented at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors.
If an incumbent director is not reelected, the director shall offer his or her resignation promptly to the Board of Directors.  Within 90 days following certification of the election results, the Board of Directors shall act on the offered resignation.  In determining whether to accept the offered resignation, the Board of Directors shall consider any recommendation of the Compensation, Governance and Nominating Committee or any committee responsible for the nomination of directors, the factors considered by that committee and any additional information and factors that the Board of Directors believes to be relevant.
Article XIII.                Powers of Directors.
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
All corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the authority of, and the business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of, the Board of Directors, subject to any limitation set forth in the Articles of Incorporation, and so far as this delegation of authority is not inconsistent with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia or with the Articles of Incorporation.
Article XIV.                Executive and Other Committees.
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
The Board of Directors, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, may designate two or more of its number to constitute an Executive Committee.  If a quorum is present at a duly noticed or regular meeting of the Committee, the Committee may act upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the Committee members present.
When the Board of Directors is not in session, the Executive Committee shall have and may exercise all of the authority of the Board of Directors except that the Executive Committee shall not (a) approve or recommend to Shareholders action that Virginia Stock Corporation Act requires to be approved by Shareholders; (b) fill vacancies on the Board of Directors or any of its Committees or elect officers; (c) amend the Articles of Incorporation; (d) adopt, amend or repeal these Bylaws; (e) approve a plan of merger not requiring Shareholder approval; (f) authorize or approve a distribution, except according to a general formula or method prescribed by the Board of Directors; or (g) authorize or approve the issuance or sale or contract for sale of shares, or determine the designation and rights, preferences, and limitations of a class or ser ies of shares, except that the Board of Directors may authorize the Executive Committee to do so subject to the limits, if any, prescribed by the Board of Directors.  If the Executive Committee is created for any designated purpose, its authority shall be limited to such purpose.  The Executive Committee shall report its action to the Board of Directors.  Regular and special meetings of the Executive Committee may be called and held subject to the same requirements with respect to time, place and notice as are specified in these Bylaws for regular and special meetings of the Board of Directors.
Members of the Executive Committee shall receive such compensation for attendance at meetings as may be fixed by the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors likewise may appoint from their number, from the directors of affiliated corporations or from officers of the Corporation other Committees from time to time, the number composing such Committees and the power conferred upon the same to be subject to the foregoing exceptions for an Executive Committee but otherwise as determined by vote of the Board of Directors provided that any Committee empowered to exercise the authority of the Board of Directors shall be composed only of members of the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors may designate one or more Directors to represent the Corporation at meetings of committees of the Board of Directors affiliated corporations.  Members of such committees, and Directors so designated, shall receive such compensation for attendance at meetings as may be fixed by the Board of Directors.
Article XV.                 Meetings of Directors and Quorum.
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at places within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia and at times fixed by resolution of the Board, or upon call of the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, President or any Vice President, the Corporate Secretary or three or more Directors and the Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Corporate Secretary shall give not less than forty-eight (48) hours notice by letter, electronic mail or telephone (or in person) of all meetings of the Directors, provided that notice need not be given of regular meetings held at times and places fixed by resolution of the Board.
A written waiver of notice signed by the Director entitled to such notice, whether before or after the date of the meeting, shall be equivalent to giving notice.  A Director who attends or participates in a meeting shall be deemed to have waived timely and proper notice of the meeting unless the Director, at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon his or her arrival, objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
A majority of the number of Directors fixed at the time in accordance with the Articles of Incorporation or such greater number as may be specifically provided in the Virginia Stock Corporation Act shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a lesser number may adjourn any meeting from time to time, and the meeting may be reconvened and held without further notice so long as the new date, time and place is announced at the meeting prior to adjournment.  When a quorum is present at any meeting, a majority of the members present shall decide any question brought before such meeting, except as otherwise provided by law, by the Articles of Incorporation, or by these Bylaws.
Article XVI.               Action Without a Meeting.
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
0;  
  
Any action required to be taken at a meeting of the Directors, or any action which may be taken at a meeting of the Directors or of a Committee, may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing (which may be in any number of counterparts), setting forth the action so to be taken, shall be signed by all of the Directors, or all of the members of the Committee, as the case may be, either before or after such action is taken, and delivered to the Corporate Secretary.  A Directors consent may be withdrawn by a revocation signed by the Director and delivered to the Corporate Secretary prior to the delivery to the Corporate Secretary of unrevoked written consents signed by all of the Directors.  For purposes of this Article, the signing and delivery of the written consent may be accomplished by electronic tran smission.  When all Directors have signed and delivered a written consent to the Corporate Secretary, such consents shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote.
Article XVII.              Director Resignation and Removals.
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
   
   
  
Any Director may resign at any time either from the Board of Directors or from any Committee of which the Director is a member by giving a written resignation to the Board of Directors or its Chairman, or to the Vice Chairman, or to the Chief Executive Officer or to the Corporate Secretary or, in the case of a resignation from a Committee, to the chairman of the Committee.  Any such resignation shall take effect upon receipt of the written resignation by one of the specified recipients, unless a later effective time is specified in the resignation.  Unless otherwise specified in the resignation or in these Bylaws, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.  Any resignation delivered under Article XII shall require acceptance to make it effective.
At any meeting called for the purpose of removing a Director, the Shareholders may, with the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares entitled to vote, remove any Director from office for cause.  The Shareholders may then elect a successor to a Director removed from office if such purpose was included in the meeting notice.  The nomination and election of such successor shall be accomplished in the same manner provided in these Bylaws for nomination and election of directors at an annual meeting.  The Board of Directors, by vote of a majority of the whole Board, may remove from any Committee of the Board any member of that Committee, with or without cause.
Article XVIII.             Board Vacancies.
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
If the office of any Director shall become vacant, the Directors, at the time in office, whether or not a quorum, may by majority vote of the Directors then in office, choose a successor who shall hold office until the next annual meeting of Shareholders.  Vacancies resulting from an increase in the number of Directors shall be filled in the same manner.  If the vacancy results from the removal of a Director by the Shareholders as provided in Article XVII, the vacancy may also be filled by the Shareholders as provided in such Article.
Article XIX.               Officers.
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chief Executive Officer, a President, one or more Vice Presidents (as one or more may be elected an Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President), a Corporate Secretary, a Treasurer and a Controller.  The Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Vice Chairman shall also be officers unless they are not also full-time employees of the Corporation.  The officers and the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Vice Chairman shall be elected or appointed by the Board of Directors after each election of Directors by the Shareholders, and a meeting of the Board of Directors may be held without notice for the purpose of electing officers following the Annual Meeting of the Shareholders.
The Board of Directors, in its discretion, may appoint one or more Assistant Corporate Secretaries, one or more Assistant Treasurers, one or more Assistant Controllers, and such other officers or agents as it may deem advisable, and prescribe their duties.
Article XX.                 Eligibility of Officers.
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
The Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Vice Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer shall be Directors.  Any person may hold more than one office provided, however, that neither the Corporate Secretary, the Treasurer nor the Controller shall at the same time hold the office of Chairman of the Board of Directors, Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or President.
Article XXI.
   
  
Duties and Authority of Chairman of the Board
of Directors,
Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Others.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
    ;
The Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Vice Chairman shall preside at the meetings of the Board of Directors.  The Chairman or the Vice Chairman may call meetings of the Board of Directors and of any Committee whenever it is deemed necessary.  The Chairman, the Vice Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer shall call to order, and act as chairman of, all meetings of the Shareholders, and shall prescribe such rules of procedure not inconsistent with these Bylaws or the Virginia Stock Corporation Act, and may adjourn such meetings to be reconvened at a later time or date or at another place.  The Chairman and the Vice Chairman shall perform the duties commonly incident to such office and such other duties as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.
In the absence of the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer shall perform their duties.  The Chief Executive Officer shall perform the duties commonly incident to the office of Chief Executive Officer and such other duties as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.  The Chief Executive Officer, the President and each Vice President shall have authority to sign certificates for shares of stock, bonds, deeds and contracts and to delegate such authority in such manner as may be approved by the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
If the Chairman, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are unable to serve as Chairman of any Shareholders Meeting, then the President or the Corporate Secretary, may serve in their place.
Article XXII.              Vice Presidents.
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
 
   
 
   
   
 
Each Vice President shall perform such duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.  In the event of the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer or the President, the duties and powers of such offices shall be performed and exercised by the Vice President designated to so act by the line of succession provided by the Board of Directors, or if not so provided by the Board of Directors, in accordance with the order of priority set forth in Article XXXIII.
 
Article XXIII.             Corporate Secretary.
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
   
 
The Corporate Secretary shall keep accurate minutes of all meetings of the Shareholders, the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, respectively, shall perform the duties commonly incident to the office of corporate secretary, and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.  The Corporate Secretary shall have power together with the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President, to sign certificates for shares of stock.  In the Corporate Secretarys absence, an Assistant Corporate Secretary shall perform the duties of the office.
Article XXIV.             Treasurer.
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
The Treasurer, subject to the order of the Board of Directors, shall have the care and custody of the money, funds and securities of the Corporation and shall have and exercise under the supervision of the Board of Directors, all the powers and duties commonly incident to the office of treasurer and shall deposit all funds of the Corporation in a bank or banks, trust company or trust companies or with a firm or firms doing a banking business, pursuant to a specific or general authorization from the Board of Directors.  The Treasurer may endorse for deposit or collection all checks, notes, et cetera, payable to the Corporation or to its order, may accept drafts on behalf of the Corporation, and, together with the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President, may sign certificates for shares of stock.
All checks, drafts, notes and other obligations for the payment of money except bonds, debentures and notes issued under an indenture shall be signed either manually or, if and to the extent authorized by the Board of Directors, through facsimile, by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or such other officer or agent as the Board of Directors or an officer designated by the Board of Directors shall authorize.  Checks for the total amount of any payroll may be drawn in accordance with the foregoing provisions and deposited in a special fund.  Checks upon this fund may be drawn by such person as the Treasurer shall designate.
Article XXV.              Controller.
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
 
The Controller shall keep accurate books of account of the Corporations transactions and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors shall designate from time to time.
 
Article XXVI.            Officer Resignation and Removals.
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
 
  
   
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors, to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, to the Vice Chairman, to the Chief Executive Officer or to the Corporate Secretary.  Any such resignation shall take effect upon receipt of the written notice by one of the specified recipients, unless a later effective time is specified in the notice.  Unless otherwise specified in the notice, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
The Board of Directors, by vote of a majority of the entire Board, may remove any officer or agent, with or without cause.
Article XXVII.           Officer Vacancies.
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
If the office of any officer or agent, one or more, becomes vacant by reason of death, disability, resignation, removal, disqualification or otherwise, the Directors at the time in office, if a quorum, may, by a majority vote at a meeting at which a quorum is present, choose a successor or successors who shall hold office for the unexpired term or until such officers successor is duly elected and qualified or the position is eliminated.
Article XXVIII.          Certificates and Records for Shares.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
Every Shareholder shall be entitled to a certificate or certificates for shares of record owned by such Shareholder in such form as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, duly numbered and setting forth the number and kind of shares to which such Shareholder is entitled.  Such certificates shall be signed by the Chief Executive Officer, President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Corporate Secretary.  The Board of Directors may also appoint one or more Transfer Agents and/or Registrars for its stock of any class or classes and may require stock certificates to be countersigned and/or registered by one or more of such Transfer Agents and/or Registrars.  If certificates for shares are signed, either manually or by facsimile, eng raved or printed, by a Transfer Agent or by a Registrar, the signatures of the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President and the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Corporate Secretary or an Assistant Corporate Secretary may be facsimiles, engraved or printed.  Any provisions of these Bylaws with reference to the signing of stock certificates shall include, in cases above permitted, such facsimiles. 
 
In case any officer or officers who shall have signed, or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used on, any such certificate or certificates shall cease to be such officer or officers of the Corporation, whether because of death, resignation or otherwise, before such certificate or certificates shall have been delivered by the Corporation, such certificate or certificates may nevertheless be issued and delivered as though the person or persons who signed such certificate or certificates or whose facsimile signature or signatures shall have been used had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the Corporation.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Directors may authorize the issue of some or all of the shares of any or all of its classes or series without certificates.  Within a reasonable time after the issue or transfer of shares without certificates, the Corporation shall send the Shareholder a written statement of the information required on certificates by the Virginia Stock Corporation Act or other applicable law.
The person registered on the books of the Corporation as the owner of any shares shall be entitled exclusively as the owner of such shares, to receive dividends and to vote in respect of such shares.  It shall be the duty of every Shareholder to notify the Corporation of such Shareholders address.
Article XXIX.             Transfer of Shares.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
  
Shares may be transferred by delivery of the certificate accompanied either by an assignment in writing on the back of the certificate or by a written power of attorney to sell, assign and transfer the same on the books of the Corporation, signed by the person appearing by the certificate to be the owner of the shares, and shall be transferable on the books of the Corporation upon surrender so assigned or endorsed.  Where shares have been issued without certificates, shares may be transferred by a written instrument of assignment or a written power of attorney to sell, assign and transfer the same on the books of the Corporation, signed by the person appearing by the records of the Corporation to be the owner of such shares, and shall be transferable on the books of the Corporation upon delivery of such instrument or power of attorney to the Corporation.
Article XXX.              Voting of Shares Held.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
 
Unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, any Vice President, or the Corporate Secretary may from time to time appoint one or more attorneys-in-fact or agents of the Corporation, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes that the Corporation may be entitled to cast as a shareholder or otherwise in any other corporation or other legal entity, any of whose stock or securities of which may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of any such other corporations or entities, or to consent in writing to any action by any such other corporation or entities, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed on behalf of the Corporation such written proxies, consents, waivers or other instruments as he or she may deem necessary or proper in the premises; or either the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or the Corporate Secretary may attend any meeting of the shareholders or securityholders of any such other corporation or entity and vote or exercise any or all other powers of the Corporation as the shareholder or securityholder of such other corporation or entity.
Article XXXI.   
   
Bonds, Debentures and Notes Issued Under
an Indenture.
  
    
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
 
All bonds, debentures and notes issued under an indenture may be signed by (a) the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President or such other officer or agent as the Board of Directors shall authorize and by the Corporate Secretary or any Assistant Corporate Secretary or by the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer or such other officer or agent as the Board of Directors shall authorize, or (b) such officer or officers as may be specified in the indenture.  The signature of any authorized officer of the Corporation on bonds, debentures and notes authenticated by a corporate trustee may be made manually or by facsimile.
Article XXXII.           Amendments.
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
Both the Board of Directors and the Shareholders shall have the power to alter, amend or repeal the Bylaws of the Corporation or to adopt new Bylaws, but Bylaws enacted by the Shareholders, if expressly so provided, may not be altered, amended or repealed by the Directors.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Articles IV and XI of these Bylaws may not be amended, altered, changed or repealed without the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter.
 
Article XXXIII.          Emergency Bylaws.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
The Emergency Bylaws provided in this Article XXXIII shall be operative during any emergency notwithstanding any different provision in these Bylaws or in the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation or in the Virginia Stock Corporation Act.  An emergency exists if a quorum of the Corporations Board of Directors cannot readily be assembled because of some catastrophic event.  To the extent not inconsistent with these Emergency Bylaws, the Bylaws provided in the other Articles of these Bylaws shall remain in effect during such emergency and upon the termination of such emergency the Emergency Bylaws shall cease to be operative unless and until another such emergency shall occur.
During any such emergency:
No officer, Director or employee shall be liable for any action taken in accordance with these Emergency Bylaws so long as he or she discharges his or her duties in accordance with his or her good faith business judgment of the best interests of the Corporation.
These Emergency Bylaws shall be subject to repeal or change by further action of the Board of Directors or by action of the Shareholders, except that no such repeal or change shall modify the provisions of the next preceding paragraph with regard to action or inaction prior to the time of such repeal or change.  Any such amendment of these Emergency Bylaws may make any further or different provision that may be practical and necessary for the circumstances of the emergency.
Article XXXIV.          Control Share Acquisitions.
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
 
   
   
 
   
   
 
In the event that any acquiring person (an Acquiring Person) as defined in Section 13.1-728.1 of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act (the Act), either (a) fails to comply with the provisions of Section 13.1-728.4 of the Act or (b) fails to obtain the approval of the Shareholders of the Corporation at any meeting held pursuant to Section 13.1-728.5, then the Corporation shall have authority, upon approval by resolution of the Board of
Directors to call for redemption, at anytime within 60 days after the last acquisition of any such shares by such Acquiring Person or the date of such meeting, as the case may be, and thereafter to redeem on such date within such 60-day period as may be specified in such resolution (the Redemption Date) all shares of Common S tock of the Corporation theretofore acquired by the Acquiring Person in a control share acquisition (as defined in Section 13.1-728.1 of the Act) and then owned beneficially by such Acquiring Person, as such number of shares may be either (a) shown on any control share acquisition statement or any statement or report filed by the Acquiring Person with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or (b) otherwise determined by the Board of Directors.  The redemption price shall be computed in accordance with Section 13.1-728.7 of the Act and paid in cash on the Redemption Date against delivery at the principal office of the Corporation of certificates evidencing the shares so redeemed.
All determinations by the Board of Directors as to (a) the status of any person as an Acquiring Person under the Act, (b) the number of shares of the Corporation owned by such Acquiring Person, (c) the timeliness of compliance by any Acquiring Person within Section 13.1-728.4 of the Act, or (d) the interpretation of the Act or this Article if made in good faith, shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
 

May 19, 2010
Mr. Mark F. McGettrick
Chief Financial Officer
Dominion Resources, Inc.
Re: Supplemental Retirement Agreement
Dear Mark:
On April 22, 2005, Dominion Resources, Inc. (the Company) entered into a Supplemental Retirement Agreement with you under which you will be treated as a Life Participant under the terms of the Companys New Executive Supplemental Retirement Plan (New ESRP) when you attain age 60 while an officer of the Company.  Pursuant to your August 1, 1999 Employment Agreement you were granted five additional years of age and service credits upon your 50th birthday for purposes of determining pension and certain other retirement benefits.  These terms of your Employment Agreement were confirmed in a February 13, 2007 letter agreement. The purpose of this letter is to restate and clarify the April 22, 2005 Supplemental Retirement Agreement in light of your five additional years of age credits.   You and the Company agree that, effective as of the execution of this Agreement, your April 22, 2005 Supplemental Retirement Agreement is null and void.
Because of your valuable knowledge and experience, the Company wishes to enter into this supplemental retirement agreement (the Agreement) with you to ensure that your employment with the Company will continue and that your services will not be available to a competitor. 
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, the Company agrees that if you remain in the Companys employ and serve as an officer of the Company until November 14, 2012, upon your subsequent termination of employment for any reason other than for Cause (as such term is defined in your Employment Continuity Agreement), you will be treated as a Life Participant under the terms of the Company's New Executive Supplemental Retirement Plan (New ESRP 1;).  The five years of additional age and service credited to you pursuant to the February 13, 2007 letter will be disregarded for purposes of determining your eligibility to become a Life Participant; you must remain continuously employed as an officer of the Company until November 14, 2012 to be treated as a Life Participant.  If you do not fulfill the terms and conditions of this Agreement, you will remain a Regular Participant under the terms of the New ESRP.
The New ESRP benefit payable under this Agreement will be calculated in accordance with the terms of New ESRP Section 3.1(b).  This benefit will be paid as a Lump Sum Equivalent, as such term is defined in the New ESRP.
In consideration for the Companys promise under this Agreement, you agree that, effective on the date of this Agreement, during your employment and for two years following the termination of your employment for any reason, you will not, directly or indirectly, own, manage, operate, control, be employed by, or provide consulting services to, any other business that engages in activities in competition with the Company in any state (a) in which the Company is at the time carrying on business activities or (b) in which the Company is at the time actively negotiating to enter into business activities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Chief Executive Officer may determine, in his sole discretion, to permit specific employment and/or activities if he deems it will not be detrimental to the Company.
You further agree, effective on the date of this Agreement, that during your employment with the Company and for a period of two years following the termination of your employment for any reason, you will not solicit or attempt to solicit any employees or customers of the Company, or other persons or entities with or through whom the Company has done business, for the purpose of providing goods and services or engaging in activities in competition with the Company.  You specifically agree that, during the period of your employment and for two years following the termination of your employment for any reason, you will not (a) solicit, aid or encourage, directly or indirectly, any employees of the Company to leave the Company or work elsewhere or (b) solicit, aid or encourage, directly or indirectly, any of the Companys cus tomers to move their business from the Company or to place business elsewhere.
The Companys contractual obligations under the New ESRP and this Agreement are unsecured obligations. Any payment made under this Agreement will be paid from the general assets of the Company when due. No promises under this Agreement will be secured by any specific assets of the Company, nor will any assets of the Company be designated as attributable or allocated to the satisfaction of any such promises. Except as modified by this Agreement, the New ESRP benefit will be subject to the terms of the New ESRP in effect at the time of payment.
If you agree with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, please indicate your acceptance by signing and returning one copy to Marie Carter, Director-Executive Compensation. Please retain the other copy for your records.
This Agreement is effective as of May 19, 2010.
Sincerely,
/s/ Thomas F. Farrell II
 
Thomas F. Farrell II
Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer
Dominion Resources, Inc.
ACCEPTED:
/s/ Mark F. McGettrick
   
   
   
   
  
May 19, 2010   
Mark F. McGettrick                                                                         Date
 
 
   


