FILE:D/D-8K-20120509160558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.07.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Our Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on May 8, 2012.  Results of items presented for voting are listed below.
The following nominees were elected to the Board of Directors for a one-year term or until next years annual meeting:   William P. Barr, Peter W. Brown, Helen E. Dragas, Thomas F. Farrell II, John W. Harris, Robert S. Jepson, Jr., Mark J. Kington, Frank S. Royal, Robert H. Spilman, Jr., and David A. Wollard. The votes cast with respect to all of the nominees presented at the annual meeting were as follows:
 
 
 
The appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as our independent auditors for 2012 was ratified by shareholders as follows:
Shareholders approved an advisory vote on approval of executive compensation (say on pay).  The vote was as follows:
A shareholder proposal requesting the Company to provide a report assessing the benefits for Virginia of Dominion having 15% of electric generation from wind and solar by 2025 was not approved.  The vote was as follows:
A shareholder proposal requesting the Company to provide a report on policy options to encourage the installation of renewable energy generation systems was not approved.  The vote was as follows:
 
 
 
 
A shareholder proposal requesting the Company to provide a report on the impact of plant closures on communities was not approved.  The vote was as follows:
A shareholder proposal requesting the Company to provide a report assessing Dominions use of coal obtained through mountaintop removal coal mining was not approved.  The vote was as follows:
A shareholder proposal requesting the Company to provide a report on impact and risks of increased extraction and use of natural gas was not approved.  The vote was as follows:
A shareholder proposal requesting the Company to provide a report on the special review of nuclear safety policies and practices by a committee of independent directors was not approved.  The vote was as follows:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  May 9, 2012


