ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This managements discussion and analysis has been prepared giving retroactive effect to the pooling of interests business combinations with ALP on September 10, 1999 and Bindley on February 14, 2001. The discussion and analysis presented below refers to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Portions of this managements discussion and analysis presented below include "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words "believe", "expect", "anticipate", "project", and similar expressions, among others, identify "forward looking statements", which speak only as of the date the statement was made. Such forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to materially differ from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of such risks, uncertainties and other factors are discussed in Item 1 of this Form 10 K under the heading "Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results" and are described in Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 10 K. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. GENERAL The Company operates within four operating business segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services, Medical Surgical Products and Services, Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services, and Automation and Information Services. See Note 16 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a description of these segments. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OPERATING REVENUE Percent of Total Growth (1) Operating Revenues Years ended June 30 2002 2001 2002 2001 2000 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services 17% 31% 82% 81% 79% Medical Surgical Products and Services 6% 19% 14% 15% 16% Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 11% 9% 3% 3% 4% Automation and Information Services 19% 17% 1% 1% 1% Total Company 15% 28% 100% 100% 100% (1) Growth is calculated as the change (increase or decrease) in the operating revenue for a given year as a percentage of the operating revenue in the immediately preceding year. Total operating revenue increased 15% during fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001. This increase is a result of a higher sales volume across various customer segments; strong sales of self manufactured products; pharmaceutical price increases averaging approximately 5%; addition of new products; and the addition of new customers, some of which was a result of new corporate agreements with healthcare providers. Total operating revenue increased 28% during fiscal 2001 as compared to fiscal 2000. The increase in operating revenue resulted from a higher sales volume to existing customers; pharmaceutical price increases averaging approximately 4%; acquisitions; and addition of new customers, some of which was a result of cross selling opportunities among the various businesses. For further discussion of acquisitions, see Note 2 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segments operating revenue growth in fiscal 2002 is a result of strong sales to all customer segments, especially retail pharmacy and grocery chains and alternate site customers, each of which yielded 20% growth, as well as strong growth in mail order and government customers. A portion of the fiscal 2002 growth is attributable to pharmaceutical price increases and the addition of new contracts. The increase in this segments operating revenue in fiscal 2001 resulted from strong sales to all customer segments, especially chain pharmacies, which provided 44% growth; an increase in sales volume to existing customers; pharmaceutical price increases; and the addition of new contracts. The Medical Surgical Products and Services segments operating revenue growth in fiscal 2002 is a result of strong sales of self manufactured products, particularly sales of surgical instruments and custom kits for surgical procedures, as well as price increases and increases in sales of distributed products. Several new long term contracts were signed within the segments distribution business. The increase in this segments operating revenue in fiscal 2001 primarily reflected an increase in sales of 17 distributed products. The Company acquired Bergen Brunswig Medical Corporation ("BBMC") in the first quarter of fiscal 2001 and accounted for the acquisition as a purchase transaction. As this transaction was accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, prior year revenues for this segment do not include BBMC revenues prior to acquisition. Excluding BBMC revenues in 2001, the total operating revenues grew approximately 4% over fiscal 2000. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments operating revenue growth in fiscal 2002 resulted from higher sales volume particularly involving development and analytical services, pharmaceutical technologies, and its proprietary packaging offerings. Products that showed particular strength were Abbotts Kaletra(R), an AIDS product; Lillys Zyprexa(R) Zydis(R), an anti psychotic; and Pharmacias Detrol(R) LA, an incontinence medication. Accelerating demand for sterile liquid and controlled release technologies in addition to the acquisition of SP Pharmaceuticals, was a significant contributor to the growth within the pharmaceutical technologies business. The completion of the Magellan acquisition during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 contributed to the growth in the analytical services business. Excluding the revenues of SP Pharmaceuticals and Magellan, operating revenues grew approximately 6% over fiscal 2001. Additionally, the segment experienced growth in its pharmaceutical packaging business which was attributable to the addition of several new customers and increased volume from existing customers. The increase in this segments operating revenue in fiscal 2001 resulted from higher sales volume particularly involving the Zydis(R) rapid dissolving drug delivery technology and the sterile liquid pharmaceutical products. Slowing sales in the protease inhibitor and health and nutritional product lines partially offset the growth in this segment in both fiscal years. The Automation and Information Services segments operating revenue growth in fiscal 2002 primarily resulted from strong sales in the patient safety and supply management product lines, such as MEDSTATION SN(R) and SUPPLYSTATION(R) System 30. Significant sales of new products including Anesthesia System and products within the SupplyStation line also contributed to this segments growth. The increase in this segments operating revenue in fiscal 2001 primarily reflected sales of new products, such as the MEDSTATION(R) SN, which was introduced in late fiscal 2000, and further penetration of the market with existing automation products. BULK DELIVERIES TO CUSTOMER WAREHOUSES. The Company reports bulk deliveries made to customers warehouses as revenue. These sales involve the Company acting as an intermediary in the ordering and subsequent delivery of pharmaceutical products. Fluctuations in bulk deliveries result largely from circumstances that the Company cannot control, including consolidation within the customers industries, decisions by customers to either begin or discontinue warehousing activities, changes in policies by manufacturers related to selling directly to customers, and the addition or loss of customers. Due to the lack of margin generated through bulk deliveries, fluctuations in their amount have no significant impact on the Companys net earnings. GROSS MARGIN (as a percentage of operating revenue) Years ended June 30 2002 2001 2000 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services 5.1% 5.2% 5.5% Medical Surgical Products and Services 21.9% 22.1% 23.2% Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 33.4% 33.3% 33.1% Automation and Information Services 68.5% 68.6% 69.2% Total Company 9.1% 9.3% 10.2% The overall gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue decreased in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001. This decrease resulted from a greater mix of lower margin pharmaceutical distribution operating revenues in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001 as compared to the prior years. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment represented 82% of operating revenues in fiscal 2002, up from 81% and 79% of operating revenues in fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000, respectively. The decline in the margins in the Medical Surgical Products and Services and Automation and Information Services segments also contributed to the overall decline in the Companys gross margin. The gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue in the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment decreased in fiscal 2002. This decrease was primarily due to the highly competitive market within the pharmaceutical distribution industry and a greater mix of high volume customers where a lower cost of distribution and better asset management enabled the Company to offer lower selling margins to its customers. In addition, this segments gross margin was negatively impacted by several non recurring items, primarily related to the Bindley integration. The Company incurred a one time inventory adjustment related to the process of closing and rationalizing facilities in addition to the integration of the operations of Bindley and Cardinal. These decreases were partially offset by higher vendor margins from favorable price increases and manufacturer marketing programs. Gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue declined in fiscal 2001 primarily due to the impact of lower selling 18 margins. The decline in selling margins was attributed to a highly competitive market and greater mix of high volume customers where a lower cost of distribution and better asset management enabled the Company to offer lower selling margins to its customers. This decrease was partially offset by higher vendor margins from favorable price increases and manufacturer marketing programs. The gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue in the Medical Surgical Products and Services segment decreased in fiscal 2002 primarily due to competitive pricing pressures on distributed products. This decline was partially offset by manufacturing productivity improvements and a higher sales volume of self manufactured products which carry significantly higher gross margins than other portions of this segments business. In fiscal 2001, the decline in gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue was primarily due to the acquisition of BBMC. This acquisition shifted product mix toward lower margin distributed products. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue increased during fiscal 2002. This increase was primarily due to a larger mix of higher margin pharmaceutical products versus health and nutritional products, as well as cost efficiencies due to recent infrastructure investments at manufacturing facilities. This increase was partially offset by the impact of certain items that occurred in fiscal 2001 which did not recur in fiscal 2002, namely revenues related to the use of certain of the Companys proprietary technology. This segments gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue increased in fiscal 2001 versus fiscal 2000 due to an increase in sales volume in the higher margin liquid fill contract manufacturing and drug delivery system businesses. The drug delivery system business shift to higher margin pharmaceutical products from lower margin health and nutrition products also contributed to the improvement in gross margin. In addition, during both fiscal 2002 and 2001, the Company recognized pricing adjustments related to the minimum recovery expected to be received for claims against vitamin manufacturers for amounts overcharged in prior years (see Note 2 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). These pricing adjustments were recorded as a reduction of cost of goods sold, consistent with the classification of the original overcharge, and were based on the minimum amounts estimated to be recoverable based on the facts and circumstances available at the time they were recorded. The amounts recorded for these pricing adjustments were $12.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2002 and $10.0 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2001. The gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue in the Automation and Information Services segment decreased in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, primarily due to changes in its product mix as a result of increased sales of SupplyStation which generates a lower gross margin than the medication line of products due to the relatively less complex nature of the product. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (as a percentage of operating revenue) Years ended June 30 2002 2001(1) 2000(1) Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services 2.1% 2.4% 2.7% Medical Surgical Products and Services 13.3% 14.6% 15.8% Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 13.5% 14.7% 14.5% Automation and Information Services 31.2% 32.9% 34.9% Total Company 4.7% 5.2% 5.8% (1) In fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of operating revenue include goodwill amortization. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of operating revenue declined in fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001. This decline reflects economies of scale associated with the Companys revenue growth. Significant productivity gains resulting from continued cost control efforts in all segments and the continuation of consolidation and selective automation of operating facilities contributed to the improvement. In addition, the Company is continuing to take advantage of synergies from recent acquisitions to decrease selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of operating revenue. In fiscal 2002, the Company ceased amortizing goodwill due to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (see Notes 1 and 15 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion) which also contributed to the improvement. Goodwill amortization expense in fiscal 2001 was approximately $48.9 million. In addition, the Company realized productivity and operating efficiencies as a result of implementing changes at Pyxis to better service its customers. Partially offsetting the improvement in selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2001 was an increase in these expenses as a percentage of operating revenue for the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment. This change was primarily a result of surplus capacity in the health and nutritional manufacturing facilities for this segment. The selling, general and administrative expenses, excluding goodwill amortization, grew 6% and 14% in fiscal years 2002 and 2001, respectively. The increase in fiscal 2002 and 2001 is attributed primarily to an increase in personnel costs, which accounted 19 for approximately 4% and 12%, respectively, of the overall increase. The overall increase compares favorably to the 15% and 28% growth in operating revenue for the same periods. SPECIAL CHARGES The following is a summary of the special charges for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (in millions, except per share amounts) 2002 2001 2000 Merger related costs: Direct transaction costs $ $ (20.8) $ 1.2 Employee related costs (23.7) (44.6) (7.7) ALP transaction bonus (20.3) Pharmaceutical distribution center consolidation (52.4) (10.3) Other exit costs (9.0) (8.5) (12.5) Scherer restructuring costs (1.6) (9.6) Other integration costs (46.8) (32.3) (15.8) Total merger related costs $(131.9) $(118.1) $(64.7) Other special charges: Distribution center closures $ $ (5.0) $ Manufacturing facility closures (2.8) (6.8) Employee related costs (15.2) Litigation settlements 11.3 5.0 Total other special charges $ (6.7) $ (6.8) $ Total special charges $(138.6) $(124.9) $(64.7) Tax effect of special charges 51.5 39.6 14.9 Net effect of special charges $ (87.1) $ (85.3) $(49.8) Net effect on diluted earnings per share $ (0.19) $ (0.19) $(0.11) Merger Related Charges. Costs of effecting mergers and subsequently integrating the operations of the various merged companies are recorded as merger related costs when incurred. The merger related costs are primarily a result of the merger or acquisition transactions with Bindley, BBMC, ALP, Allegiance and Scherer. During fiscal 2001 and 2000, the Company incurred direct transaction costs related to its merger transactions accounted for as a pooling of interests. These expenses primarily include investment banking, legal, accounting and other professional fees associated with the respective merger transactions. In addition, during the periods shown above, the Company incurred employee related costs, which consist primarily of severance, non compete agreements and transaction/stay bonuses as a result of certain acquisitions. Partially offsetting the transaction and employee related costs recorded during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000 was a $10.3 million credit to adjust the estimated transaction and employee related costs previously recorded in connection with the Allegiance merger transaction. Actual billing and employee related costs were less than the amounts originally anticipated, resulting in a reduction of the merger related costs. During fiscal 2002 and 2001, the Company recorded charges of $52.4 million and $10.3 million, respectively, primarily associated with the Companys plans to consolidate distribution centers and corporate offices as a result of the Companys merger transaction with Bindley. In connection with such consolidations, the Company incurred employee related costs of $7.5 million and $0.5 million, in fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively, arising from the termination of approximately 950 employees primarily related to the closure of 14 Bindley distribution centers. In addition, exit costs related to termination of contracts and lease agreements were incurred during fiscal 2002 and 2001 of $3.6 million and $9.8 million. Also, asset impairment charges of $27.2 million were incurred during fiscal 2002. The remaining $14.1 million incurred during fiscal 2002 is primarily related to costs associated with moving inventory and other assets during the consolidation of distribution centers and corporate offices. As of June 30, 2002, the majority of the 950 employees had been terminated. The Company anticipates completing the distribution center consolidations by June 30, 2003. As part of the restructuring, the Company plans on closing a total of 16 Bindley distribution centers. 20 Other exit costs relate primarily to costs associated with lease terminations and moving expenses as a direct result of the merger or acquisition transactions with BBMC, ALP, Allegiance and Scherer. During fiscal 2001 and 2000, the Company recorded charges of $1.6 million and $9.6 million, respectively, for business restructuring costs relating to the Companys merger transaction with Scherer. As part of the business restructuring, the Company closed certain facilities. In connection with such closings, the Company incurred employee related costs of $1.6 million and $1.5 million in fiscal 2001 and 2000, respectively, arising from the termination of approximately 400 manufacturing and office employees, all of whom had been terminated as of June 30, 2001. In addition, asset impairment charges of $3.9 million were recorded in fiscal 2000. The remaining costs relate to exit costs for the termination of contracts and lease agreements. As of June 30, 2001, the restructuring plan had been completed. Other integration costs include charges directly related to integration of the operations of previous merger transactions, such as consulting costs related to information systems and employee benefit integration, as well as relocation and travel costs directly associated with the integrations. Other Special Charges. During fiscal 2002, the Company incurred employee related costs of $15.2 million primarily associated with a restructuring of the distribution and custom kitting operations in the Medical Surgical Products and Services segment. A significant portion of the charges recorded represent severance accrued upon communication of severance terms to employees during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. The restructuring plan is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002, and will result in the termination of approximately 600 employees. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company recorded income from net litigation settlements of $11.3 million. These settlements included a $13.3 million special item resulting from the recovery of antitrust claims against certain vitamin manufacturers for amounts overcharged in prior years. The recovery totaled $35.3 million, of which $22.0 million had previously been recorded ($10.0 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2001 and $12.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2002). The amounts previously recorded were reflected as a reduction of cost of goods sold, which is consistent with the classification of the original overcharge, and were based on the minimum amounts estimated to be recoverable based on the facts and circumstances available at the time they were recorded. While the Company still has pending claims against other manufacturers, the amount of any future recovery is not currently estimable. Any future recoveries will be recorded as a special item in the period when a settlement is reached. The vitamin litigation income was offset by other items totaling $2.0 million, the majority of which involved a litigation settlement reached during fiscal 2002 related to Bindley. During fiscal 2001, the Company recorded a special charge of $5.0 million related to rationalization of certain pharmaceutical distribution centers. Approximately, $4.4 million related to asset impairments, lease exit costs and duplicate facility costs resulting from the Companys decision to consolidate certain distribution centers and relocate to a more modern distribution center. The remaining amount of $0.6 million arose in connection with employee related costs associated with the termination of approximately 100 employees primarily related to the closure of the distribution centers. As of June 30, 2001, the restructuring plan had been completed. In addition, during fiscal 2002 and 2001, the Company recorded special charges of $2.8 million and $6.8 million, respectively, related to the restructuring of certain health and nutritional manufacturing facilities. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company incurred asset impairment costs of $1.8 million primarily due to a writeoff of obsolete inventory created by the rationalization of certain health and nutritional manufacturing facilities. Approximately $0.9 million and $2.2 million related to lease exit costs during fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively. The remaining $0.1 million and $4.6 million during these periods related to employee related costs associated with the termination of approximately 185 employees primarily consisting of manufacturing employees and certain management positions. As of June 30, 2002, the majority of these positions had been eliminated. The restructuring plan is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003. During fiscal 2001, Bindley recorded a benefit of approximately $5.0 million related to a reduction in a litigation settlement accrual, which was previously recorded. The amount of the final settlement was lower than originally anticipated. Summary. In fiscal 2002, the net effect of various special charges reduced reported earnings before cumulative effect of change in accounting by $87.1 million to $1,126.3 million (see Note 14 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for discussion on cumulative effect of change in accounting) and reduced reported diluted earnings per Common Share before cumulative effect of change in accounting by $0.19 per share to $2.45 per share. In fiscal 2001, the net effect of various special charges reduced reported net earnings by $85.3 million to $857.4 million and reduced reported diluted earnings per Common Share by $0.19 per share to $1.88 per share. In fiscal 2000, the net effect of various special charges reduced reported net earnings by $49.8 million to $717.8 million and reduced reported diluted earnings per Common Share by $0.11 per share to $1.60 per share. 21 Certain merger related and restructuring costs are based upon estimates. Actual amounts paid may ultimately differ from these estimates. If additional costs are incurred or recorded amounts exceed costs, such changes in estimates will be recorded in special charges when incurred. The Company estimates that it will incur additional merger related costs associated with the various merger transactions completed to date totaling approximately $75.9 million ($48.9 million net of tax) in future periods. Additional discussion related to the Companys merger transactions is included in Note 2 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The Company believes that it will incur these costs in order to properly integrate operations a portion of which represents facility rationalizations and implementing efficiencies with regard to, among other things, information systems, customer systems, marketing programs and administrative functions. Such amounts will be charged to expense when incurred. The Companys trend with regard to acquisitions has been to expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry. This trend has resulted in expansion into service areas which (a) complement the Companys existing operations and (b) provide opportunities for the Company to develop synergies with, and thus strengthen, the acquired business. As the healthcare industry continues to change, the Company continually evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and intends to continue to seek opportunities to expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry through all its reporting segments. There can be no assurance that it will be able to successfully pursue any such opportunity or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, the Company would incur additional merger related costs. INTEREST EXPENSE AND OTHER. The decrease in interest expense and other of $22.4 million during fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 was a result of lower interest rates on borrowings throughout the year and effective asset management. In addition, the Company recognized a one time gain on an equity investment, contributing to the overall decline. The increase in interest expense and other of $16.2 million during fiscal 2001 was a result of higher average levels of borrowing during fiscal 2001. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES. The provisions for income taxes relative to pretax earnings were 33.8% of pretax earnings in fiscal 2002 compared with 35.6% in fiscal 2001 and 37.1% for fiscal 2000. The fluctuation in the tax rate is primarily due to the impact of recording certain non deductible merger related costs during various periods as well as fluctuating state and foreign effective tax rates as a result of the Companys business mix for all three fiscal years. In addition, effective July 1, 2001, the Company ceased amortizing goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. This contributed to the decrease in the tax rate in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000. The provisions for income taxes excluding the impact of merger related charges and of goodwill were 34.1%, 34.4% and 35.5% for the fiscal years 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that can have a significant impact on the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and that require the use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing the Companys financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS. Trade receivables are primarily comprised of amounts owed to the Company through its pharmaceutical and other healthcare distribution activities and are presented net of an allowance of doubtful accounts. The Company also provides financing to various customers. Such financing arrangements range from one year to ten years, at interest rates that generally fluctuate with the prime rate. The financings may be collateralized, guaranteed by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivable are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and are included in other assets. Extending credit terms and calculating the required allowance involve the use of a substantial amount of judgment by the Companys management. In determining the appropriate allowance, the Company reviews the industry trends and the customers financial strength, credit standing, and payment history to assess the probability of collection. INVENTORIES. A majority of inventories (approximately 67% in 2002 and 66% in 2001) are stated at lower of cost, using the last in, first out ("LIFO") method, or market, and are primarily merchandise inventories. The remaining inventory is primarily stated at the lower of cost, using the first in, first out ("FIFO") method, or market. If the Company had used the FIFO method of inventory valuation, which approximates current replacement cost, inventories would have been higher. Below is a reconciliation of FIFO inventory to LIFO inventory: 22 June 30, 2002 2001 2000 FIFO inventory $7,411.4 $6,338.9 $4,714.3 LIFO reserve valuation (50.4) (52.8) (57.3) Total inventory $7,361.0 $6,286.1 $4,657.0 GOODWILL. The Company elected to adopt SFAS No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2002. Under SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually. Accordingly, the Company has ceased amortization of all goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives as of July 1, 2001. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily patents and trademarks, will continue to be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS No. 142 requires a two step impairment test for goodwill. The first step is to compare the carrying amount of the reporting units assets to the fair value of the reporting unit. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value then the second step is required to be completed, which involves allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to each asset and liability, with the excess being implied goodwill. An impairment loss occurs if the amount of the recorded goodwill exceeds the implied goodwill. The Company is required to complete an impairment test for goodwill and record any resulting impairment losses annually. Changes in market conditions, among other factors, may have an impact on these estimates. The Company completed the required impairment testing in fiscal 2002 and did not incur any impairment charges. SPECIAL CHARGES. The Company primarily records costs that relate to the integration of previously acquired companies or costs of restructuring operations to improve productivity as special charges. These costs are recorded in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring) and Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 100, Restructuring and Impairment Charges. Certain costs, such as employee and lease terminations and other facility exit costs, are recognized at the date the integration or restructuring plan is formalized and adopted by management. Certain other integration costs that do not meet the criteria for accrual at the commitment date are expensed as the integration plan is implemented. Employee costs include severance and termination benefits. Lease termination costs include lease cancellation fees, forfeited deposits and remaining payments due under existing lease agreements less estimated sublease income. Other facility exit costs are estimated based on historical experience of the total costs incurred in exiting a facility. Other integration costs primarily include charges directly related to the integration plan such as consulting costs related to information systems and employee benefit plans as well as relocation and travel costs directly associated with the integration plan. Actual costs could differ from managements estimates. If actual results are different from original estimates, the Company will record additional expense or reverse previously recorded expenses. These adjustments will be recorded as special charges. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Working capital increased to $5.1 billion at June 30, 2002 from $4.1 billion at June 30, 2001. This increase primarily resulted from additional investments in inventories during fiscal 2002. Inventories increased by $1.1 billion from year to year, which reflects the higher level of business volume in Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services activities. Property and equipment, at cost, increased by $163.4 million from June 30, 2001 to June 30, 2002. The increase was primarily due to ongoing plant expansion and manufacturing equipment purchases in certain manufacturing businesses, as well as additional investments made for management information systems and upgrades to distribution facilities. The Company has several operating lease financing arrangements that are expected to be used for the construction of new facilities as well as for equipment (see further discussion in Note 8 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.") Shareholders equity increased to $6.4 billion at June 30, 2002 from $5.4 billion at June 30, 2001. The increase was primarily due to net earnings of $1.1 billion and the investment of $213.7 million by employees of the Company through various stock incentive plans. This increase was offset by dividends paid of $45.0 million and by an increase in treasury stock of 308.3 million, primarily due to the Companys repurchase of shares (see further discussion in Note 10 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) The Company operates a commercial paper program. At June 30, 2002, the commercial paper program provided for the issuance of up to $1.5 billion in aggregate maturity value of commercial paper. The Company did not have any borrowings outstanding under its commercial paper program at June 30, 2002. The Company has an unsecured bank credit facility providing for up to an aggregate of $1.5 billion in borrowings of which $750 million expires on March 27, 2003 and $750 million expires on March 31, 2004. The facility expiring on March 27, 2003, allows the Company, at its option, to extend the maturity of any moneys borrowed for up to one year. At expiration, these facilities 23 can be extended upon mutual consent of the Company and the lending institutions. This credit facility exists largely to support issuances of commercial paper as well as other short term borrowings and remained unused at June 30, 2002. The Company also has uncommitted short term credit facilities with various bank sources aggregating $131.9 million. At June 30, 2002, the Company had borrowings outstanding related to these short term credit facilities of $22.4 million. The Company also has line of credit agreements with various bank sources aggregating $38.1 million, of which $0.8 million was outstanding at June 30, 2002 (see Note 4 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). The following table summarizes the maturities for the Companys significant financial obligations: (in millions) 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total Long term debt $17.4 $247.6 $313.8 $157.4 $135.3 $1,352.9 $2,224.4 Operating leases 52.9 44.5 35.7 26.0 18.4 34.6 212.1 Total financial obligations $70.3 $292.1 $349.5 $183.4 $153.7 $1,387.5 $2,436.5 As of June 30, 2002, the Companys senior debt credit ratings from Moodys, S&P and Fitch are currently A2, A and A, respectively, and the commercial paper ratings are currently A 1, P 1 and F 1, respectively. The Companys ratings outlook is stable. The Companys various borrowing facilities and long term debt, except for the preferred debt securities discussed below, are free of any financial covenants other than minimum net worth which cannot fall below $4.1 billion at any time. As of June 30, 2002, the Company was in compliance with this covenant. During fiscal 2002, the Company issued $300 million of 4.45% Notes, due 2005. The proceeds of the debt issuance were used toward repayment of a portion of the Companys indebtedness and general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments. After this issuance, the Company has the capacity to issue approximately $700 million of additional equity or debt securities pursuant to effective shelf registration statements that have previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. During fiscal 2001, the Company entered into an agreement to periodically sell trade receivables to a special purpose accounts receivable and financing entity (the "SPE"). The SPE exclusively engages in purchasing trade receivables from, and making loans to, the Company. The SPE, which is consolidated by the Company, issued $400 million in preferred debt securities to parties not affiliated with the Company during fiscal 2001. These preferred debt securities are classified as long term debt in the Companys consolidated balance sheet. These preferred debt securities must be retired or redeemed by the SPE before the Company, or its creditors, can have access to the SPEs receivables. The Companys preferred debt securities contain a minimum net worth and certain financial ratio covenants. As of June 30, 2002, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants would be followed by a grace period during which the Company may discuss remedies with the security holders, or extinguish the securities, without causing an event of default. The Company currently believes that it has adequate capital resources at its disposal to fund currently anticipated capital expenditures, business growth and expansion, and current and projected debt service requirements, including those related to business combinations. See Notes 1 and 5 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives, including foreign currency hedging instruments. As a matter of policy, the Company does not engage in "speculative" transactions involving derivative financial instruments. OFF BALANCE SHEET RISK The Company formed Pyxis Funding LLC ("Pyxis Funding") for the sole purpose of acquiring a pool of sales type leases and the related leased equipment from Pyxis and selling the lease receivables to Pyxis Funding LLC II ("Pyxis Funding II"). Pyxis Funding is a wholly owned, special purpose, bankruptcy remote subsidiary of Pyxis. Pyxis Funding II was formed for the sole purposes of acquiring lease receivables under sales type leases from Pyxis Funding and issuing Pyxis Funding IIs notes secured by its assets to a multi seller conduit administered by a third party bank. Pyxis Funding II is a wholly owned, special purpose, bankruptcy remote subsidiary of Pyxis Funding. The transaction qualifies for sale treatment under SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," and, accordingly, the related receivables are not included in the Companys consolidated financial statements. As required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the Company consolidates Pyxis Funding and does not consolidate Pyxis Funding II, as Pyxis Funding II is a qualified special purpose entity, as defined under SFAS 140. Both Pyxis Funding and Pyxis Funding II are separate legal entities that maintain separate financial statements. The assets of Pyxis Funding and Pyxis Funding II are available first and foremost to satisfy the claims of their creditors. The investor in Pyxis Funding IIs notes had a principal balance of $95.4 million on August 31, 2002, and is provided 24 with credit protection in the form of 20% ($23.8 million) over collateralization. At June 30, 2002, the Company had $280.0 million in committed receivables sales facility programs through Medicine Shoppe Capital Corporation ("MSCC") and Cardinal Health Funding LLC ("CHF"). (see Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for additional information regarding the structure of these entities.) MSCC and CHF were organized for the sole purpose of buying receivables and selling those receivables to multi seller conduits administered by third party banks or to other third party investors. MSCC and CHF were designed to be special purpose, bankruptcy remote entities. Although consolidated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, MSCC and CHF are separate legal entities from the Company, Medicine Shoppe, and Griffin Capital LLC ("Griffin"). The sale of receivables by MSCC and CHF qualifies for sale treatment under SFAS 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities" and accordingly the related receivables are not included in the Companys consolidated financial statements. The total amount of receivables that have been sold under the MSCC program was $8.8 million and $13.5 million at June 30, 2002 and 2001, respectively. There were no outstanding sold receivables under the CHF program as of June 30, 2002 and 2001. Recourse is provided under the MSCC program by the requirement that MSCC retain 20% subordinated interest in the sold receivables. Subordinated interest at June 30, 2002 was $2.2 million. Recourse is provided under the CHF program by the requirement that CHF retain a percentage subordinated interest in the sold receivables. The percentage is determined based upon the composition of the receivables sold. At June 30, 2002, no receivables had been sold under this program and as a result no subordinated interest was outstanding. The Company has entered into operating lease agreements with several banks for the construction of various new facilities and equipment. The initial terms of the lease agreements have varied maturity dates ranging from November 2003 through October 2008, with optional renewal periods, generally five years. In the event of termination, the Company is required (at its election) to either purchase the facility or vacate the property and make reimbursement for a portion of any unrecovered property cost. The maximum portion of unrecovered property costs that the Company could be required to reimburse does not exceed the amount expended to acquire and or construct the facilities. As of June 30, 2002, the amount expended to acquire and or construct the facilities was $479.7 million. The agreements provide for maximum fundings of $604.1 million, which is greater than the estimated cost to complete the construction projects. The required lease payments equal the interest expense for the period on the amounts drawn. Lease payments under the agreements are based primarily upon LIBOR and are subject to interest rate fluctuations. As of June 30, 2002, the weighted average interest rate on the agreements approximated 2.6%. The Companys minimum annual lease payments under the agreements at June 30, 2002 were approximately $13.2 million. OTHER RECENT FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS. In June 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities," effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. This statement nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)." This statement generally requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity other than those associated with a business combination, be recognized when the liability is incurred instead of recognizing the liability at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan as was required in Issue 94 3. The adoption of this statement is not anticipated to have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections," effective for fiscal years beginning or transactions occurring after May 15, 2002. This statement clarifies several accounting issues including the classification of gains and losses from the early extinguishment of debt and lease modifications that should be accounted for in a manner similar to a sales leaseback transaction. The adoption of this statement is not anticipated to have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets," effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. SFAS No. 144 supersedes SFAS 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," and provides a single accounting model for the disposal of long lived assets from continuing and discontinued operations. The adoption of this statement is not anticipated to have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. This statement addresses the diverse accounting practices for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. The adoption of this statement is not anticipated to have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. 25 In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations," and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS No. 141 requires that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. Adoption of this standard did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 142 changes the accounting for goodwill and certain other intangible assets from an amortization method to an impairment only approach. Due to the adoption of SFAS No. 142, the Company did not amortize goodwill beginning in fiscal 2002. The Company completed its impairment assessment as required by SFAS No. 142 and did not incur any impairment losses (see Note 1 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.") RECENT DEVELOPMENTS. On August 7, 2002, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of Common Shares up to an aggregate of $500.0 million. As of August 31, 2002, 1.1 million Common Shares having an aggregate cost of approximately $73.1 million had been repurchased through this plan. The repurchased shares will be held as treasury shares and used for general corporate purposes. On June 14, 2002, the Company announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Syncor International Corporation ("Syncor"), a Woodland Hills, California based company which is a leading provider of nuclear pharmacy services. The acquisition of Syncor is a stock for stock merger transaction and is expected to be completed by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2003, subject to customary conditions, including Syncor stockholder approval. At the completion of the acquisition, each Syncor share will be converted to 0.52 of a Common Share. Based on the closing sale price of a Common Share as of September 27, 2002, the value of the Common Shares to be received by all of the Syncor stockholders in connection with the merger is approximately $900 million. On January 22, 2002, Kmart Corporation ("Kmart") filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy court protection. Cardinal Distribution, the most significant business within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment, has serviced Kmart for more than ten years and has continued to service approximately 1,400 of its stores nationwide since the inception of the bankruptcy case. Sales to Kmart represent approximately 5% of the Companys total operating revenue, but earnings from these sales are an even smaller percentage of the Companys total operating earnings. Due to a unique consignment arrangement in which the Company still owns the related pharmaceutical inventories, it has significantly limited its credit exposure to Kmart. The Company is monitoring this Chapter 11 proceeding closely, and does not anticipate any material impact on its consolidated financial position and results of operations due to this bankruptcy filing. ITEM 7a: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE SENSITIVITY. The Company is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations due to exchange rate variation. Foreign currency risk exists by nature of the Companys global operations. Because the Company manufactures and sells its products throughout the world, its foreign currency risk is diversified. For fiscal 2002, the Companys net transactional exposure was approximately $203.5 million. As of June 30, 2002, a hypothetical 10% aggregate increase or decrease in the currencies to which the Company has exposure would result in a gain or loss of approximately $20.4 million, principally driven by exposures to the Euro and the Mexican Peso. In order to mitigate its transactional exposure to foreign currency risk, the Company enters into hedging instruments. For fiscal 2002, the Company hedged approximately 40% of its exposure to transactions denominated in different foreign currencies. In the event of a hypothetical 10% aggregate increase or decrease in the currencies to which the Company has exposure, the resulting gain or loss previously noted would decrease by approximately $8.1 million. Therefore, as a result of the Companys hedging activity as of June 30, 2002, a hypothetical 10% aggregate increase or decrease in the currencies to which the Company has exposure would result in a net gain or loss of approximately $12.3 million ($20.4 million less $8.1 million mitigated via hedges). See Notes 1 and 5 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion. The Company also has exposure related to the translation of financial statements from the local currency of its foreign divisions back to U.S. dollars, the functional and reporting currency of the parent company. During fiscal 2002, this translational exposure totaled approximately $67.2 million. The potential gain or loss due to foreign currency translation, assuming a 10% aggregate increase or decrease in the respective currencies, would be approximately $6.7 million. The Company does not hedge any of its translational exposure. INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY. The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing and investing activities used to maintain liquidity and fund business operations. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions, and other factors. The Company utilizes interest rate swap instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate movements. 26 As of June 30, 2002, the potential gain or loss due to a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates would be approximately $2.3 million. See Notes 1 and 5 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion. COMMODITY PRICE SENSITIVITY. The Company purchases certain commodities for use in its manufacturing processes, which include rubber, heating oil, diesel fuel, and polystyrene. The Company typically purchases these commodities at market prices, and, as such, is affected by fluctuations in the market prices. For fiscal 2002, the total commodity exposure was approximately $32.0 million. The impact of a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices would be approximately $3.2 million. 
 
