ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion and analysis presented below has been prepared giving retroactive effect to the pooling of interests business combination with Bindley on February 14, 2001. The discussion and analysis presented below refers to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Form 10 K. GENERAL The Company has four operating business segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services, Medical Products and Services, Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services and Automation and Information Services. See Part I, Item 1, "Business," and Note 16 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a description of these segments. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OPERATING REVENUE Percent of Company Growth (1) Operating Revenues Years ended June 30, 2003 2002 2003 2002 2001 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services 14% 17% 82% 82% 81% Medical Products and Services 6% 6% 13% 14% 15% Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 44% 12% 4% 3% 3% Automation and Information Services 19% 19% 1% 1% 1% Total Company 14% 15% 100% 100% 100% (1) Growth is calculated as the change (increase or decrease) in the operating revenue for a given year as a percentage of the operating revenue in the immediately preceding year. Total operating revenue increased 14% and 15% during fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in fiscal 2003 resulted from a higher sales volume across each of the Companys segments; strong sales of self manufactured products; the addition of new products; the addition of new customers, some of which was a result of new corporate agreements with health care 20 providers; and pharmaceutical price increases averaging approximately 5%. In addition, the Syncor acquisition within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment accounted for approximately 1% of the overall growth of the Company during fiscal 2003. The overall growth was partially offset by a decline within the Companys non core wholesaler to wholesaler pharmaceutical trading business, as further discussed below. The increase in fiscal 2002 resulted from a higher sales volume across various customer segments; strong sales of self manufactured products; pharmaceutical price increases averaging approximately 5%; addition of new products; and the addition of new customers, some of which was a result of new corporate agreements with health care providers. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segments operating revenue growth in fiscal 2003 resulted from strong sales to customers within this segments core pharmaceutical distribution business, some of which were generated from the addition of new contracts. The most significant growth was in the alternate site and chain pharmacy businesses, which yielded growth of approximately 28% and 15%, respectively. The chain pharmacy growth rate would have been stronger had it not experienced a reduction in business with Kmart due to Kmarts closure of various stores in connection with Kmarts bankruptcy. The overall growth rate in this segment was also negatively impacted by the lack of availability of certain pharmaceutical products from manufacturers, particularly in the second half of the fiscal year, which impacted non core wholesaler to wholesaler revenue. This lack of availability was, in part, brought about by changes in inventory supply chain management policies of certain vendors, leading to the use of inventory management agreements. Inventory management agreements generally provide for the Company to be compensated on a negotiated basis to help manufacturers better match their shipments to meet market demand, thereby resulting in less surplus inventory for the Companys trading business. It is not anticipated that fluctuations in trading activity will have a significant impact on operating revenue growth rates in future years. The increase in this segments operating revenue in fiscal 2002 resulted from strong sales to all customer segments, especially retail pharmacy and grocery chains and alternate site customers, each of which yielded 20% growth, as well as strong growth in mail order and government customers. A portion of the fiscal 2002 growth was attributable to pharmaceutical price increases and the addition of new contracts. The Medical Products and Services segments operating revenue growth in fiscal 2003 resulted from increased sales of both distributed and self manufactured products. The addition of several new contracts with hospitals and health care networks, as well as increased market share in the growing surgery center market contributed to increased sales of distributed and self manufactured products. Increased demand for certain existing self manufactured products, including medical gloves, Medi vac(R) suction canisters, Procedure Based Delivery System(R) kits and other minor procedure trays, accounted for a portion of this segments revenue growth. The addition of new, self manufactured products also contributed to the overall revenue growth in this segment. Some examples of these new, self manufactured products include the Esteem(R) surgeon gloves and the Tiburon(TM) and Astound(TM) fabrics within the Converters(R) business. The increase in this segments operating revenue in fiscal 2002 resulted from strong sales of self manufactured products, particularly sales of surgical instruments and custom kits for surgical procedures, as well as price increases and increases in sales of distributed products. Several new long term contracts were signed within the segments distribution business in fiscal 2002. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments operating revenue growth in fiscal 2003 resulted from increased demand within the Oral Technologies, Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences, and Packaging Services businesses, and from acquisitions, primarily Syncor. Product sales that showed particular strength within these businesses included Lillys Zyprexa(R) Zydis(R), an anti psychotic; Mylans Amnesteem(TM), a generic drug for the treatment of acne; and Sepracors Xoponex(R), a respiratory drug. The growth within the Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business was negatively impacted by the planned shutdown for twelve weeks of a domestic sterile manufacturing facility to expand capacity. The acquisition of Syncor, effective January 1, 2003, contributed to the growth in this segment. Excluding Syncor, this segment experienced revenue growth in the high teens during fiscal 2003. The increase in this segments operating revenue in fiscal 2002 resulted from higher sales volume particularly involving development and analytical services, pharmaceutical technologies, and its proprietary packaging offerings. Products that showed particular strength were Abbotts Kaletra(R), an AIDS product; Lillys Zyprexa(R) Zydis(R); and Pharmacias Detrol(R) LA, an incontinence medication. Accelerating demand for sterile liquid and controlled release technologies, in addition to the acquisition of SP Pharmaceuticals, was a significant contributor to the growth in fiscal 2002 within the pharmaceutical technologies business. The completion of the Magellan acquisition during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 contributed to the growth in the analytical services business. Excluding the revenues of SP Pharmaceuticals and Magellan, operating revenues grew approximately 6% in fiscal 2002 over fiscal 2001. Additionally, the segment experienced growth in fiscal 2002 in its pharmaceutical packaging business, which was attributable to the addition of several new customers and increased volume from existing customers. Slowing sales in the protease inhibitor and health and nutritional product lines partially offset the growth in this segment during fiscal 2002. The Automation and Information Services segments operating revenue growth in fiscal 2003 resulted from strong sales of new and existing patient safety and supply management product lines, including Pyxis MedStation(R), Pyxis Anesthesia System(TM), Pyxis Connect(TM) and Pyxis SupplyStation(R). The increase in this segments operating revenue in fiscal 2002 primarily resulted from strong sales in the patient safety and supply management product lines, such as Pyxis MedStation(R) SN and Pyxis SupplyStation 30. 21 Significant sales of new products including Pyxis Anesthesia System and products within the Pyxis SupplyStation line also contributed to this segments growth. BULK DELIVERIES TO CUSTOMER WAREHOUSES AND OTHER The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment reports bulk deliveries made to customers warehouses as revenue. These sales involve the Company acting as an intermediary in the ordering and subsequent delivery of pharmaceutical products. Fluctuations in bulk deliveries result largely from circumstances that the Company cannot control, including consolidation within the customers industries, decisions by customers to either begin or discontinue warehousing activities and changes in policies by manufacturers related to selling directly to customers. Due to the lack of margin generated through bulk deliveries, fluctuations in their amount have no significant impact on the Companys net earnings. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment records out of pocket reimbursements received through its sales and marketing services business as revenue. These out of pocket expenses, which generally include travel expenses and other incidental costs, are incurred to fulfill the services required by the contract. Within these contracts, the customer agrees to reimburse the Company for the expenses. Due to the Company not generating any margin from these reimbursements, fluctuations in their amount have no impact on the Companys net earnings. GROSS MARGIN (as a percentage of operating revenue) Years ended June 30, 2003 2002 2001 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services 4.6% 5.0% 5.1% Medical Products and Services 21.9% 21.9% 22.1% Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 33.1% 34.1% 33.6% Automation and Information Services 70.3% 68.5% 68.6% Total Company 8.9% 9.1% 9.3% The overall gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue decreased in fiscal 2003 and 2002 due to the mix of businesses contributing to the consolidated gross margin. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment in fiscal 2003 resulted primarily from the following: (1) an increase in sales to lower margin customers (which have a lower cost of distribution) that reduced gross margins; (2) competitive pricing; and (3) a moderation in vendor margins due to manufacturers attempting to better match their shipments to meet market demand, resulting in less surplus inventory (see additional discussion of these factors below). A decrease in gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue within Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services also contributed to the overall decrease. The decrease in the overall gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue in fiscal 2002 resulted from a greater mix of lower margin pharmaceutical distribution operating revenues as compared to the prior year. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment represented 82% of operating revenues in fiscal 2002, up from 81% in fiscal 2001. The decline in the gross margins in the Medical Products and Services and Automation and Information Services segments also contributed to the overall decline in the Companys gross margin in fiscal 2002. The gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue in the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment decreased in fiscal 2003. This decrease in gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue primarily resulted from an increase in sales to lower margin customers (which include chain pharmacy and alternate site) which have a lower cost of distribution. The table below shows the percentage breakdown of operating revenue by customer class within Pharmaceutical Distribution, the largest business within this segment, for fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001. Customer Class 2003 2002 2001 Chain Pharmacy 47% 47% 46% Alternate Site 22% 20% 19% Health System 18% 19% 20% Independent 13% 14% 15% Total 100% 100% 100% This segments selling margins were negatively impacted by competitive pricing, which was another primary cause of the decrease in gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue. A moderation in vendor margin programs also contributed to the decline in this segments gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue. The Company has seen changes in vendor supply chain 22 management policies related to product availability, including the use of inventory management agreements. Under these types of agreements, the Company is generally compensated on a negotiated basis to help manufacturers better match their shipments with market demand, therefore adversely affecting the Companys investment margin opportunities. Generally, the Company is compensated under its inventory management agreements based on the timing of inventory price increases and the volume of inventory purchases during the agreed upon period. The Company recognizes the amounts received from such agreements within gross margin based upon related inventory sales. The gross margins in the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment may be affected in future years by changes occurring in the industry, such as changes in vendor supply chain management policies, including the use of inventory management agreements. These changes provide fewer opportunities for the pharmaceutical distribution business within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment to make large purchases of product with related vendor margin incentives. With fewer opportunities to make attractive inventory investments, the Company expects to deploy less capital in this segment. The decline in gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue in the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment in fiscal 2002 resulted primarily from the highly competitive market within the pharmaceutical distribution industry and a greater mix of high volume customers where a lower cost of distribution and better asset management enabled the Company to offer lower selling margins to its customers (see table above). In addition, this segments gross margin in fiscal 2002 was negatively impacted by several non recurring items, primarily related to the Bindley integration. In fiscal 2002, the Company incurred a one time inventory adjustment related to the process of closing and rationalizing facilities in addition to the integration of the operations of Bindley into this segment. These decreases in fiscal 2002 were partially offset by higher vendor margins from favorable price increases and manufacturer marketing programs. The gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue in the Medical Products and Services segment remained unchanged in fiscal 2003. This segments gross margin was positively impacted by increased sales of existing and new higher margin, self manufactured products, manufacturing efficiencies achieved during the fiscal year and outsourcing of some product manufacturing to more cost efficient areas. The impact of new distribution agreements which increased sales of lower margin distributed products offset the gains noted above. The decline in gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue in this segment in fiscal 2002 resulted primarily from competitive pricing pressures on distributed products. This decline was partially offset by manufacturing productivity improvements and a higher sales volume of self manufactured products which carry significantly higher gross margins than other portions of this segments business. The gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue in the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment decreased during fiscal 2003. This decrease was primarily driven by the addition of Syncors nuclear pharmacy services business. Syncor has a slightly lower gross margin ratio than the other businesses within this segment. Also, the gross margin was negatively impacted by certain items that occurred in fiscal 2002 that did not recur in fiscal 2003, including the recording of pricing adjustments related to the minimum recovery expected to be received for claims against vitamin manufacturers for amounts overcharged in prior years (also, see Note 2 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). These pricing adjustments were recorded as a reduction of cost of goods sold, consistent with the classification of the original overcharge, and were based on the minimum amounts estimated to be recoverable based on the facts and circumstances available at the time they were recorded. The Company recorded $12.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2002 and $10.0 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2001 for these pricing adjustments. This segments gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue increased during fiscal 2002. This increase was primarily due to a larger mix of higher margin pharmaceutical products versus health and nutritional products, as well as cost efficiencies due to infrastructure investments at manufacturing facilities. This increase was partially offset by the impact of certain items that occurred in fiscal 2001 which did not recur in fiscal 2002, namely revenues related to the use of certain of the Companys proprietary technology. The gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue in the Automation and Information Services segment increased in fiscal 2003, primarily from the mix of products sold as well as productivity gains realized from the operational improvements implemented in the prior fiscal year. This segments gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue decreased in fiscal 2002, primarily due to changes in its product mix. 23 SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES (as a percentage of operating revenue) Years ended June 30, 2003 2002 2001 (1) Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services 1.7% 2.1% 2.3% Medical Products and Services 12.8% 13.3% 14.6% Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 15.1% 14.5% 15.4% Automation and Information Services 30.4% 31.2% 32.9% Total Company 4.4% 4.7% 5.2% (1) In fiscal 2001, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of operating revenue include goodwill amortization. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of operating revenue declined in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002. This decline reflects ongoing productivity programs and economies of scale associated with the Companys revenue growth. Significant productivity gains resulting from continued cost control efforts in all segments and the continuation of consolidation and selective automation of operating facilities contributed to the improvement. In addition, the Company is continuing to take advantage of synergies from recent acquisitions to decrease selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of operating revenue. The improvement in fiscal 2003 was partially offset by an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of operating revenue in the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, primarily the result of changes within the business mix in this segment. This business mix change was largely driven by the acquisition of Syncor, which has a higher expense ratio as compared to other businesses in this segment. In the first quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company ceased amortizing goodwill due to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (see Notes 1 and 15 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion) which also contributed to the improvement. Goodwill amortization expense in fiscal 2001 was approximately $48.9 million. In addition, during fiscal 2002, the Company realized productivity and operating efficiencies as a result of implementing changes within the Automation and Information Services segment to better service its customers. The selling, general and administrative expenses grew 7% and 6% in fiscal years 2003 and 2002, respectively. Expenses from the operations of newly acquired companies accounted for approximately 6% of the overall increase in fiscal 2003, with expenses relating to the operations of Syncor giving rise to the largest part of the increase. The increase in fiscal 2002 was primarily due to an increase in personnel costs, which accounted for approximately 4% of the overall increase. The overall increase in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 compares favorably to the 14% and 15% growth in operating revenue for the same periods. 24 SPECIAL ITEMS & MERGER RELATED COSTS The following is a summary of the merger related costs and other special items for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (in millions, except per Common Share amounts) 2003 2002 2001 Merger related costs: Direct transaction costs $ $ $ (20.8) Employee related costs (18.7) (23.7) (46.2) Pharmaceutical distribution center consolidation (22.7) (52.4) (10.3) Asset impairments & other exit costs (5.4) (9.0) (8.5) Other integration costs (27.6) (46.8) (32.3) Total merger related costs $ (74.4) $(131.9) $ (118.1) Other special items: Distribution center closures $ $ $ (5.0) Manufacturing facility closures & restructurings (40.2) (2.8) (6.8) Employee related costs (6.9) (15.2) Asset impairments and other (19.9) Litigation settlements, net 101.5 11.3 5.0 Total other special items $ 34.5 $ (6.7) $ (6.8) Total special items $ (39.9) $(138.6) $ (124.9) Tax effect of special items 6.7 51.5 39.6 Net effect of special items $ (33.2) $ (87.1) $ (85.3) Net effect on diluted earnings per Common Share $ (0.07) $ (0.19) $ (0.19) MERGER RELATED COSTS Costs of integrating the operations of various merged companies are recorded as merger related costs when incurred. The merger related costs recognized for the fiscal years shown above were primarily a result of the merger or acquisition transactions involving Syncor, BLP, Magellan, Bindley, BBMC, Allegiance and Scherer. DIRECT TRANSACTION COSTS. During fiscal 2001, the Company incurred direct transaction costs related to its merger transaction with Bindley, which was accounted for as a pooling of interests. These expenses of $20.8 million primarily included investment banking, legal, accounting and other professional fees associated with the merger. EMPLOYEE RELATED COSTS. During fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company incurred employee related costs associated with certain merger and acquisition transactions of $18.7 million, $23.7 million and $46.2 million, respectively. These costs primarily consist of severance, non compete agreements and transaction/stay bonuses as a direct result of the mergers or acquisitions. In addition to these types of costs, during fiscal 2003, the Company incurred a charge of $8.8 million related to an approved plan to curtail certain defined benefit pension plans within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment. This curtailment resulted from the plan to conform Scherers employee benefit plans to the Companys benefit plan structure at the time of the Scherer merger. PHARMACEUTICAL DISTRIBUTION CENTER CONSOLIDATION. During fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company recorded charges of $22.7 million, $52.4 million and $10.3 million, respectively, primarily associated with the Companys plans to close and consolidate a total of 16 Bindley distribution centers, Bindleys corporate office, and one of the Companys data centers as a result of the merger transaction with Bindley. In connection with the Bindley related consolidations and closures, the Company incurred employee related costs of $3.2 million, $7.5 million and $0.5 million in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, arising primarily from the termination of approximately 1,250 employees. In addition, exit costs related to termination of contracts and lease agreements were incurred during fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001 of $8.2 million, $3.6 million and $9.8 million, respectively. Also, asset impairment charges of $8.2 million and $27.2 million, respectively, were incurred during fiscal 2003 and 2002. The remaining $3.1 million and $14.1 million incurred during fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively, was primarily related to costs associated with moving inventory and other assets during the consolidation of distribution centers, Bindleys corporate office and one of the Companys data centers. As of June 30, 2003, the Company had completed the closures and consolidations noted above and the 25 employees noted above had been terminated. ASSET IMPAIRMENTS & OTHER EXIT COSTS. The asset impairments and other exit costs during fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001 of $5.4 million, $9.0 million and $8.5 million, respectively, are primarily related to costs associated with lease terminations, moving expenses and asset impairments as a direct result of the merger or acquisition transactions with BBMC, Allegiance and Scherer. OTHER INTEGRATION COSTS. Other integration costs during fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001 of $27.6 million, $46.8 million and $32.3 million, respectively, included charges directly related to the integration of operations of previous merger and acquisition transactions. These operations include, but are not limited to, information systems, employee benefits and compensation, accounting/finance, tax, treasury, internal audit, risk management, compliance, administrative services, sales and marketing and others. The costs included in this category generally relate to expenses incurred to integrate the merged or acquired companys operations and systems into the Companys pre existing operations and systems. OTHER SPECIAL ITEMS DISTRIBUTION CENTER CLOSURES. During fiscal 2001, the Company recorded a special charge of $5.0 million related to rationalization of certain pharmaceutical distribution centers. Approximately, $4.4 million related to asset impairments, lease exit costs and duplicate facility costs resulting from the Companys decision to consolidate certain distribution centers and relocate to a more modern distribution center. The remaining amount of $0.6 million arose in connection with employee related costs associated with the termination of approximately 100 employees primarily related to the closure of the distribution centers. As of June 30, 2001, the restructuring plan had been completed. MANUFACTURING FACILITY CLOSURES & RESTRUCTURINGS. During fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company recorded a total of $40.2 million, $2.8 million and $6.8 million, respectively, as special charges related to the closure, consolidation and restructuring of certain manufacturing facilities. These closures, consolidations and restructurings occurred within the Medical Products and Services segment and the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment. Within the Medical Products and Services segment, three manufacturing facility closures were completed during fiscal 2003. Also, certain operations within three other facilities were identified for consolidation or rationalization. A total of $23.6 million was recorded related to these closures, consolidations and rationalizations, of which $10.3 million related to severance costs due to the termination of approximately 1,475 employees. Approximately 600 of the employees were terminated prior to June 30, 2003. The remaining employees are expected to be terminated during fiscal 2004. Asset impairment charges of $9.4 million were incurred. Also, exit costs of $3.9 million were incurred, primarily related to dismantling and moving machinery and equipment. The plans to consolidate or rationalize the three facilities discussed above are expected to be completed during fiscal 2004. The Company incurred special charges of $13.7 million related to the restructuring, consolidation or closure of three manufacturing facilities within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment during fiscal 2003. One restructuring was completed during fiscal 2003. The other two consolidations/closures are expected to be completed by September 30, 2003. Asset impairment charges of $5.7 million were incurred related to these closures. Also, exit costs of $3.2 million were incurred primarily related to dismantling machinery and equipment and transferring certain technologies to other facilities as part of the restructuring plan. The remaining $4.8 million represents employee related costs, primarily severance related to the termination of approximately 400 employees. As of June 30, 2003, the majority of these employees have been terminated. In addition, during fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, the Company recorded special charges of $2.9 million, $2.8 million and $6.8 million, respectively, related to the restructuring of certain health and nutritional manufacturing facilities. During fiscal 2003, the $2.9 million primarily represents costs associated with transferring and validating the health and nutrition operations as the processes are rationalized. Asset impairment costs of $1.8 million were incurred during fiscal 2002 primarily due to a writeoff of obsolete inventory created by this rationalization of facilities. Approximately $0.9 million and $2.2 million related to lease exit costs during fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively. The remaining $0.1 million and $4.6 million during fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively, related to employee related costs associated with the termination of approximately 185 employees, primarily manufacturing and certain management positions. As of June 30, 2003, these employees had been terminated. The restructuring plan is expected to be completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2004. EMPLOYEE RELATED COSTS. During fiscal 2003, the Company incurred employee related costs of $6.9 million primarily due to the integration and reorganization of certain operations within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment. The Company recorded charges of $5.0 million related to this restructuring, the majority of which represents severance accrued upon communication of severance terms to employees. This restructuring plan was completed by June 30, 2003, and resulted in the termination of approximately 185 employees. The remaining $1.9 million was primarily due to the restructuring of certain operations within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment. A significant portion of the charges represent 26 severance accrued at the time severance terms were communicated to employees. This restructuring plan was completed by June 30, 2003 and resulted in the termination of approximately 30 employees. During fiscal 2002, the Company incurred employee related costs of $15.2 million primarily associated with a restructuring of the distribution and custom kitting operations in the Medical Products and Services segment. A significant portion of the charges recorded represent severance accrued upon communication of severance terms to employees during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. This restructuring plan was completed during fiscal 2003, and resulted in the termination of approximately 600 employees. ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AND OTHER. During fiscal 2003, the Company incurred asset impairment and other charges of $19.9 million, of which $10.1 million related to asset impairment charges, primarily goodwill, resulting from the Companys decision to exit certain North American commodity operations in its Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment. An additional $7.8 million related to a writeoff of design and tooling costs. The remaining $2.0 million primarily includes non employee related costs associated with certain restructuring activities initiated by the Company outside of its manufacturing facilities. LITIGATION SETTLEMENTS, NET. During fiscal 2003 and 2002, the Company recorded income from net litigation settlements of $101.5 million and $11.3 million, respectively. The settlements resulted primarily from the recovery of antitrust claims against certain vitamin manufacturers for amounts overcharged in prior years. The total recovery through June 30, 2003 was $138.2 million (net of attorneys fees, payments due to other interested parties and expenses withheld). Of this total recovery, $102.9 million and $13.3 million were recorded as special items during fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively. The remaining $22.0 million had previously been recorded ($10.0 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2001 and $12.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2002) and reflected as a reduction of cost of goods sold, consistent with the classification of the original overcharge, and were based on the minimum amounts estimated to be recoverable based on the facts and circumstances available at the time they were recorded. While the Company still has pending claims with smaller vitamin manufacturers, the total amount of future recovery is not currently estimable, but the Company believes it is not likely to be a material amount. Any future recoveries will be recorded as a special item in the period in which a settlement is reached. During fiscal 2001, Bindley recorded a benefit of approximately $5.0 million related to a reduction in a litigation settlement accrual, which was previously recorded. The amount of the final settlement was lower than originally anticipated. SUMMARY In fiscal 2003, the net effect of various special items reduced reported earnings from continuing operations by $33.2 million to $1,411.9 million and reduced reported diluted earnings per Common Share from continuing operations by $0.07 per share to $3.12 per share. In fiscal 2002, the net effect of various special items reduced reported earnings before cumulative effect of change in accounting by $87.1 million to $1,126.3 million (see Note 14 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for discussion on cumulative effect of change in accounting) and reduced reported diluted earnings per Common Share before cumulative effect of change in accounting by $0.19 per share to $2.45 per share. In fiscal 2001, the net effect of various special charges reduced reported net earnings by $85.3 million to $857.4 million and reduced reported diluted earnings per Common Share by $0.19 per share to $1.88 per share. Certain merger and acquisition related and restructuring costs are based upon estimates. Actual amounts paid may ultimately differ from these estimates. If additional costs are incurred or recorded amounts exceed costs, such changes in estimates will be recorded in special items when incurred. The Company estimates that it will incur additional costs associated with the various merger, acquisition and restructuring activities entered into to date totaling approximately $90 million (approximately $60 million net of tax) in future periods. This estimate is subject to adjustment pending resolution of Syncor acquisition related litigation contingencies. Additional discussion related to the Companys merger transactions is included in Note 2 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The Company believes that it will incur these costs in order to properly integrate and rationalize operations, a portion of which represents facility rationalizations and implementing efficiencies with regard to, among other things, information systems, customer systems, marketing programs and administrative functions. Such amounts will be charged to expense when incurred. The Companys trend with regard to acquisitions has been to expand its role as a provider of services to the health care industry. This trend has resulted in expansion into service areas which (a) complement the Companys existing operations and (b) provide opportunities for the Company to develop synergies with, and thus strengthen, the acquired business. As the health care industry continues to change, the Company continually evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and intends to continue to seek opportunities to expand its role as a provider of services to the health care industry through all its reporting segments. There can be no assurance that it will be able to successfully pursue any such opportunity or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, the Company would incur additional merger 27 and acquisition related costs, and there can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful. INTEREST EXPENSE AND OTHER. The decrease in interest expense and other of $17.2 million during fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 resulted from lower interest rates and effective asset management, resulting in lower average borrowings outstanding. The decrease in interest expense and other of $22.4 million during fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001 was a result of lower interest rates on borrowings throughout the year and effective asset management, resulting in lower average borrowings outstanding. In addition, in fiscal 2002, the Company recognized a one time gain on an equity investment, which contributed to the overall decline. The Company manages its exposure to changing interest rates using various hedging strategies (see Notes 1 and 5 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES. The provisions for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of change in accounting were 33.6% of pretax earnings in fiscal 2003 compared with 33.8% in fiscal 2002 and 35.6% for fiscal 2001. The fluctuation in the tax rate is primarily due to changes within state and foreign effective tax rates resulting from the Companys business mix and changes in the tax impact of special items, which may have unique tax implications. In addition, effective July 1, 2001, the Company ceased amortizing goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. This contributed to the decrease in the tax rate in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that can have a significant impact on the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and that require the use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing the Companys financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS. Trade receivables are primarily comprised of amounts owed to the Company through its operating activities and are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company also provides financing to various customers. Such financing arrangements range from one year to ten years at interest rates that generally fluctuate with the prime rate. The financings may be collateralized, guaranteed by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivable are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and are included in other assets. Extending credit terms and calculating the required allowance involve the use of a substantial amount of judgment by the Companys management. In determining the appropriate allowance, the Company reviews the industry trends and the customers financial strength, credit standing, and payment history to assess the probability of collection. See Schedule II included in this Form 10 K which includes a rollforward of activity for these allowance reserves. INVENTORIES. A majority of inventories (approximately 68% in 2003 and 67% in 2002) are stated at the lower of cost, using the last in, first out ("LIFO") method, or market, and are primarily merchandise inventories. The remaining inventory is primarily stated at the lower of cost, using the first in, first out ("FIFO") method, or market. If the Company had used the FIFO method of inventory valuation, which approximates current replacement cost, inventories would have been higher. Below is a reconciliation of FIFO inventory to LIFO inventory: June 30, (in millions) 2003 2002 2001 FIFO inventory $7,679.5 $7,411.4 $ 6,338.9 LIFO reserve valuation (56.2) (50.4) (52.8) Total inventory $7,623.3 $7,361.0 $ 6,286.1 GOODWILL. The Company elected to adopt SFAS No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2002. Under SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually. Accordingly, the Company ceased amortization of all goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives as of July 1, 2001. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily customer relationships and patents and trademarks, continue to be amortized over their useful lives. The Company completed the required impairment testing in fiscal 2003 and 2002 and did not incur any impairment charges. 28 SPECIAL CHARGES. The Company primarily records costs that relate to the integration of previously acquired companies or costs of restructuring operations to improve productivity as special charges. Integration costs from acquisitions accounted for under the pooling of interests method have been recorded in accordance with EITF 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs incurred in a Restructuring)" and Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 100, "Restructuring and Impairment Charges." Certain costs related to these acquisitions, such as employee and lease terminations and other facility exit costs, were recognized at the date the integration plan was adopted by management. Certain other integration costs that did not meet the criteria for accrual at the commitment date have been expensed as the integration plan has been implemented. The costs associated with integrating acquired companies under the purchase method are recorded in accordance with EITF 95 3, "Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination." Certain costs to be incurred by the Company, as the acquirer, such as employee and lease terminations and other facility exit costs, are recognized at the date the integration plan is formalized and adopted by management. Certain other integration costs that do not meet the criteria for accrual at the commitment date are expensed as the integration plan is implemented. At the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2003, the Company implemented SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" to account for costs incurred in restructuring activities. Under this standard, a liability for an exit cost is recognized as incurred. As discussed above, the Company previously accounted for costs associated with restructuring activities under EITF 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)" which required the Company to recognize a liability for restructuring costs on the date of the commitment to an exit plan. The majority of the special items incurred can be classified in one of the following categories: employee related costs, exit costs (including lease termination costs), asset impairments and other integration costs. Employee costs include severance and termination benefits. Lease termination costs include lease cancellation fees, forfeited deposits and remaining payments due under existing lease agreements less estimated sublease income. Other facility exit costs include costs to move equipment or inventory out of a facility as well as other costs incurred to shut down a facility. Asset impairment costs include the remaining net book value of assets no longer used as a result of the integration or restructuring activities. Other integration costs primarily include charges directly related to the integration plan such as consulting costs related to information systems and employee benefit plans as well as relocation and travel costs directly associated with the integration plan. Actual costs could differ from managements estimates. If actual results are different from original estimates, the Company will record additional expense or reverse previously recorded expenses. These adjustments will be recorded as special charges. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Working capital increased to $5.9 billion at June 30, 2003 from $5.1 billion at June 30, 2002. This increase in working capital primarily resulted from increases in trade receivables and inventories of $489.0 million and $262.3 million, respectively. The increase in trade receivables was driven by the Companys revenue growth as well as the addition of Syncor. The increase in inventories resulted primarily from increased sales across each of the Companys segments. The increase in inventories noted above is less than in prior years due to the impact of branded to generic product conversions, vendor inventory policies, and the use of inventory management agreements, which lowered the Companys inventory investment. Synergies realized from the Bindley integration have also lowered the Companys investment in inventory. Net investment in sales type leases decreased $107.8 million at June 30, 2003, as compared to June 30, 2002. This decrease resulted primarily from the sale of sales type leases for amounts approximating their fair value, partially offset by new leases entered into during the fiscal year. The net book value of the leases sold was approximately $356.0 million (see Note 8 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion). Shareholders equity increased to $7.8 billion at June 30, 2003 from $6.4 billion at June 30, 2002. The increase was primarily due to net earnings of $1,405.8 million, the issuance of shares held in treasury for the Syncor acquisition totaling approximately $780.8 million, the valuation of Syncor vested options acquired of $47.2 million and the investment of $265.9 million by employees of the Company through various stock incentive plans. This increase in fiscal 2003 was partially offset by the repurchase of Common Shares of $1,191.7 million and dividends paid of $44.8 million. In January 2003, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of Common Shares up to an aggregate amount of $500 million. Pursuant to this authorization, the Company repurchased approximately 8.6 million Common Shares having an aggregate cost of approximately $500 million. This repurchase was completed in February 2003, and the repurchased shares were placed into treasury shares to be used for general corporate purposes. 29 In August 2002, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of Common Shares up to an aggregate amount of $500 million. Pursuant to this authorization, the Company repurchased approximately 7.8 million Common Shares having an aggregate cost of approximately $500 million. This repurchase was completed in January 2003, and the repurchased shares were placed into treasury shares to be used for general corporate purposes. In September 2001, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of Common Shares up to an aggregate amount of $500 million. Pursuant to this authorization, the Company repurchased approximately 8.3 million Common Shares having an aggregate cost of approximately $500 million. This repurchase was completed in August 2002, and the repurchased shares were placed into treasury shares to be used for general corporate purposes. At June 30, 2003, the Company had a commercial paper program providing for the issuance of up to $1.5 billion in aggregate maturity value of commercial paper. The Company also had an extendible commercial notes program providing for the issuance of up to $150.0 million of extendible commercial notes. The Company did not have any borrowings outstanding under these programs at June 30, 2003. The Company has an unsecured bank credit facility providing for up to an aggregate of $1.5 billion in borrowings of which $750.0 million expires on March 26, 2004 and $750.0 million expires on March 27, 2008. The facility expiring on March 26, 2004, allows the Company, at its option, to extend the maturity of any moneys borrowed for up to one year. At expiration, these facilities can be extended upon mutual consent of the Company and the lending institutions. This credit facility exists largely to support issuances of commercial paper as well as other short term borrowings and remained unused at June 30, 2003, except for $23.7 million of standby letters of credit issued on behalf of the Company. The Company also has uncommitted short term credit facilities with various bank sources aggregating $100.0 million. At June 30, 2003, the Company had borrowings outstanding related to these short term credit facilities of $21.0 million. The Company also has line of credit agreements with various bank sources aggregating $122.1 million, of which nothing was outstanding at June 30, 2003 (see Note 4 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). At June 30, 2003, the Company had an asset securitization facility available which allows the Company to sell receivables generated from its radiopharmaceutical operations to a wholly owned subsidiary, which in turn sells the receivables to a multi seller conduit administered by a third party bank. This securitization program allows the Company to borrow up to $65.0 million. The Company did not have any borrowings outstanding under this facility at June 30, 2003. The following table summarizes the maturities for the Companys significant financial obligations: (in millions) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Total Long term debt $ 228.7 $ 368.2 $ 163.3 $ 139.6 $ 3.2 $ 1,797.6 $ 2,700.6 Operating leases 69.8 56.8 46.3 38.4 23.4 50.1 284.8 Total financial obligations $ 298.5 $ 425.0 $ 209.6 $ 178.0 $ 26.6 $ 1,847.7 $ 2,985.4 As of June 30, 2003, the Companys senior debt credit ratings from Moodys, S&P and Fitch were A2, A and A, respectively, the commercial paper ratings were P 1, A 1 and F 1, respectively, and the ratings outlooks were negative, stable and stable, respectively. Since June 30, 2003, these ratings and outlooks have remained unchanged. The Companys various borrowing facilities and long term debt, except for the preferred debt securities discussed below, are free of any financial covenants other than minimum net worth which cannot fall below $4.1 billion at any time. As of June 30, 2003, the Company was in compliance with this covenant. During fiscal 2003, the Company issued $500 million of 4.00% Notes, due 2015. The proceeds of the debt issuance were used for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and repurchases of our debt and equity securities. After this issuance, the Company has the capacity to issue approximately $500 million of additional equity or debt securities pursuant to effective shelf registration statements that have previously been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Pursuant to authorization by the Board of Directors, the Company intends to file a shelf registration statement to increase the capacity available for issuance to $1 billion of equity and debt securities. During fiscal 2001, the Company entered into an agreement to periodically sell trade receivables to a special purpose accounts receivable and financing entity (the "SPE"). The SPE exclusively engages in purchasing trade receivables from, and making loans to, the Company. The SPE, which is consolidated by the Company, issued $400 million in preferred debt securities to parties not affiliated with the Company during fiscal 2001. These preferred debt securities are classified as long term debt in the Companys 30 consolidated balance sheet. These preferred debt securities must be retired or redeemed by the SPE before the Company, or its creditors, can have access to the SPEs receivables. The Companys preferred debt securities contain a minimum adjusted tangible net worth and certain financial ratio covenants. As of June 30, 2003, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants would be followed by a grace period during which the Company may discuss remedies with the security holders, or extinguish the securities, without causing an event of default. The Company currently believes that it has adequate capital resources at its disposal to fund currently anticipated capital expenditures, business growth and expansion and current and projected debt service requirements, including those related to business combinations. See Notes 1 and 5 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives, including foreign currency hedging instruments. As a matter of policy, the Company generally does not engage in "speculative" transactions involving derivative financial instruments. During fiscal 2003, the Company entered into one speculative interest rate swap transaction resulting in an immaterial gain. OFF BALANCE SHEET TRANSACTIONS The Company periodically enters into certain off balance sheet arrangements, primarily asset sales and operating leases, in order to maximize diversification of funding and return on assets. The asset sales, as described below, also provide for the transfer of credit risk to third parties. See Note 8 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further information regarding impacts on cash flow and expense related to these transactions. During fiscal 2003, the Company entered into two separate agreements to transfer ownership of certain equipment lease receivables, plus security interests in the related equipment, to the leasing subsidiary of a bank in the amounts of $156.0 million and $200.0 million. An immaterial gain was recognized from each of these transactions, which was classified as operating revenue within the Companys results of operations. In order to qualify for sale treatment under SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," the Company formed two wholly owned, special purpose, bankruptcy remote entities (the "SPEs") of Pyxis Corporation (which has been given the legal designation of Cardinal Health 301, Inc. and is referred to in this Form 10 K as "Pyxis"), and the SPEs formed two wholly owned, qualified special purpose entities (the "QSPEs") to effectuate the removal of the lease receivables from the Companys consolidated financial statements. In accordance with SFAS No. 140, the Company consolidates the SPEs and does not consolidate the QSPEs. Both the SPEs and QSPEs are separate legal entities that maintain separate financial statements from the Company and Pyxis. The assets of the SPEs and QSPEs are available first and foremost to satisfy the claims of their respective creditors. The Company formed Pyxis Funding LLC ("Pyxis Funding") for the sole purpose of acquiring a pool of sales type leases and the related leased equipment from Pyxis and ultimately selling the lease receivables to a multi seller conduit administered by a third party bank. Pyxis Funding is a wholly owned, special purpose, bankruptcy remote subsidiary of Pyxis. Pyxis Funding II LLC ("Pyxis Funding II") was formed for the sole purposes of acquiring lease receivables under sales type leases from Pyxis Funding and issuing Pyxis Funding IIs notes secured by its assets to a multi seller conduit administered by a third party bank. Pyxis Funding II is a wholly owned, qualified special purpose subsidiary of Pyxis Funding. The transaction qualifies for sale treatment under SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," and, accordingly, the related receivables are not included in the Companys consolidated financial statements. As required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the Company consolidates Pyxis Funding and does not consolidate Pyxis Funding II, as Pyxis Funding II is a qualified special purpose entity, as defined under SFAS No. 140. Both Pyxis Funding and Pyxis Funding II are separate legal entities that maintain separate financial statements. The assets of Pyxis Funding and Pyxis Funding II are available first and foremost to satisfy the claims of their creditors. The notes held by the investor had a principal balance of $51.5 million on June 30, 2003, and the investor is provided with credit protection in the form of 20% ($12.9 million) over collateralization. As of August 31, 2002, the notes held by the investor had a principal balance of $95.4 million, and the investor was provided with credit protection of $23.8 million. At June 30, 2003, the Company had $280.0 million in committed receivables sales facility programs through Medicine Shoppe Capital Corporation ("MSCC") and Cardinal Health Funding ("CHF"). MSCC and CHF were organized for the sole purpose of buying receivables and selling those receivables to multi seller conduits administered by third party banks or to other third party investors. MSCC and CHF were designed to be special purpose, bankruptcy remote entities. Although consolidated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, MSCC and CHF are separate legal entities from the Company, Medicine Shoppe and the Financial Shared Services business (formerly Griffin). The sale of receivables by MSCC and CHF qualifies for sale treatment under SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities," and 31 accordingly the related receivables are not included in the Companys consolidated financial statements. The total amount of receivables that have been sold under the MSCC program was $5.4 million and $8.8 million at June 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively. There were no outstanding sold receivables under the CHF program as of June 30, 2003 and 2002. Recourse is provided under the MSCC program by the requirement that MSCC retain a 20% subordinated interest in the sold receivables. Subordinated interests were $1.3 million and $2.2 million at June 30, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Subsequent to June 30, 2003, the Company elected to terminate and liquidate MSCC. As a result, the Company incurred an immaterial loss. Recourse is provided under the CHF program by the requirement that CHF retain a percentage subordinated interest in the sold receivables. The percentage is determined based upon the composition of the receivables sold. At June 30, 2003, no receivables had been sold under this program and as a result no subordinated interest was outstanding. The Company has entered into operating lease agreements with several banks for the construction of various new facilities and equipment. The initial terms of the lease agreements have varied maturity dates ranging from May 2004 through June 2013, with optional renewal periods, generally five years. In the event of termination, the Company is required (at its election) to either purchase the facility or vacate the property and make reimbursement for a portion of any unrecovered property cost. The maximum portion of unrecovered property costs that the Company could be required to reimburse does not exceed the amount expended to acquire and or construct the facilities. As of June 30, 2003, the amount expended to acquire and or construct the facilities was $501.3 million. The agreements provide for maximum fundings of $596.4 million, which is currently greater than the estimated cost to complete the construction projects. The required lease payments equal the interest expense for the period on the amounts drawn. Lease payments under the agreements are based primarily upon LIBOR and are subject to interest rate fluctuations. As of June 30, 2003, the weighted average interest rate on the agreements approximated 1.84%. The Companys minimum annual lease payments under the agreements at June 30, 2003 were approximately $9.2 million. OTHER RECENT FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS. In May 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity." This statement clarifies the definition of a liability, as currently defined under FASB Concepts Statement No. 6 "Elements of Financial Statements," as well as other items. The statement requires that financial instruments that embody an obligation of an issuer be classified as a liability. Furthermore, the standard provides guidance for the initial and subsequent measurement as well as disclosure requirements of these financial instruments. SFAS No. 150 is effective for financial instruments entered into after May 31, 2003. The adoption of this statement did not have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results from operations. In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149, "Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." This statement amends and clarifies the financial accounting and reporting requirements, as were originally established in FASB Statement No. 133, for derivative instruments and hedging activities. FASB Statement No. 149 provides greater clarification of the characteristics of a derivative instrument so that contracts with similar characteristics will be accounted for consistently. This statement is effective for contracts entered into or modified after June 30, 2003, as well as for hedging relationships designated after June 30, 2003, excluding certain implementation issues that have been effective prior to this date under FASB Statement No. 133. The adoption of this statement is not anticipated to have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In January 2003, the EITF finalized a consensus on Issue No. 02 16, "Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor." This issue requires that cash consideration received by a customer from a vendor be recorded as a reduction of cost of sales within a companys results of operations, excluding payments received when a customer sells products and services to the vendor as well as reimbursement of costs incurred by the customer in selling the vendors product. This issue also requires rebates or refunds provided to a customer as the result of achieving certain purchase levels or other defined measures to be recorded as a reduction of cost of sales. If the rebate or refund is probable and reasonably estimable, it can be allocated over the time period in which it is earned. The adoption of this consensus did not have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities." This interpretation defines when a business enterprise must consolidate a variable interest entity. This interpretation applies immediately to variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003. It applies in the first fiscal year or interim period beginning after June 15, 2003, to entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that was acquired before February 1, 2003. The adoption of this interpretation did not have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure," which amends SFAS No. 123. This statement provides alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the 32 fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. The transition guidance and annual disclosure provisions are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002 (see Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). The interim disclosure provisions are effective for financial reports containing financial statements for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2002. The adoption of this statement did not have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others." This interpretation requires a guarantor to recognize, at the inception of the guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. It also enhances a guarantors disclosure requirements to be made in its interim and annual financial statements about its obligations under certain guarantees it has issued. The initial recognition and initial measurement provisions of this interpretation are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. The Company adopted the enhanced disclosure requirements in the second quarter of fiscal 2003. The adoption of the recognition and initial measurement provisions during the third quarter of fiscal 2003 did not have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In November 2002, the EITF finalized a consensus on Issue No. 00 21 "Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables," effective for arrangements entered into after June 15, 2003. This issue defines units of accounting for arrangements with multiple deliverables resulting in revenue being allocated over the units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes. The adoption of this consensus is not anticipated to have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities," effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002. This statement nullifies EITF Issue No. 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)." This statement requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity other than those associated with a business combination, be recognized when the liability is incurred instead of recognizing the liability at the date of an entitys commitment to an exit plan as was required in Issue 94 3. The adoption of this statement did not have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections," effective for fiscal years beginning or transactions occurring after May 15, 2002. This statement clarifies several accounting issues including the classification of gains and losses from the early extinguishment of debt and lease modifications that should be accounted for in a manner similar to a sales leaseback transaction. The adoption of this statement did not have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets," effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. SFAS No. 144 supersedes SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," and provides a single accounting model for the disposal of long lived assets from continuing and discontinued operations. The adoption of this statement did not have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. This statement addresses the diverse accounting practices for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. The adoption of this statement did not have a material effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS. On August 1, 2003, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of Common Shares of up to an aggregate amount of $1.0 billion. Pursuant to this authorization, the Company repurchased approximately 17.0 million Common Shares having an aggregate cost of approximately $1.0 billion. This repurchase was completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2004, and the repurchased shares were placed into treasury shares to be used for general corporate purposes. ITEM 7a: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE SENSITIVITY. The Company is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations due to exchange rate variation. Foreign currency risk exists by nature of the Companys global operations. Because the Company manufactures and sells its products throughout the world, its foreign currency risk is diversified. For fiscal 2003 and 2002, the Companys net transactional exposure was approximately $260.3 million and $203.5 million, respectively. As of June 30, 2003 and 2002, a hypothetical 10% aggregate increase or decrease in the currencies to which the Company has exposure would result in a gain or 33 loss of approximately $26.0 million and $20.4 million, respectively, principally driven by exposures to the euro and the Mexican peso. In order to mitigate its transactional exposure to foreign currency risk, the Company enters into hedging contracts. For fiscal 2003 and 2002, the Company hedged approximately 54% and 40%, respectively, of its exposure to transactions denominated in different foreign currencies. In the event of a hypothetical 10% aggregate increase or decrease in the currencies to which the Company has exposure, the resulting gain or loss previously noted for fiscal 2003 and 2002 would decrease by approximately $14.1 million and $8.1 million, respectively. Therefore, as a result of the Companys hedging activity as of June 30, 2003 and 2002, a hypothetical 10% aggregate increase or decrease in the currencies to which the Company has exposure would result in a net gain or loss of approximately $11.9 million and $12.3 million, respectively ($26.0 million less $14.1 million mitigated by hedges in fiscal 2003, $20.4 million less $8.1 million mitigated by hedges in fiscal 2002). See Notes 1 and 5 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion. The Company also has exposure related to the translation of financial statements from the local currency of its foreign divisions back to U.S. dollars, the functional and reporting currency of the parent company. During fiscal 2003 and 2002, this translational exposure totaled approximately $108.8 million and $67.2 million, respectively. The potential gain or loss due to foreign currency translation, assuming a 10% aggregate increase or decrease in the respective currencies, would be approximately $10.9 million and $6.7 million, respectively, for fiscal 2003 and 2002. The Company typically does not hedge any of its translational exposure. There were no translational hedges outstanding at June 30, 2003 and 2002. INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY. The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing and investing activities used to maintain liquidity and fund business operations. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions and other factors. The Company utilizes interest rate swap instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate movements. As of June 30, 2003 and 2002, the potential gain or loss due to a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates would be approximately $1.3 million and $2.3 million, respectively. See Notes 1 and 5 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion. COMMODITY PRICE SENSITIVITY. The Company purchases certain commodities for use in its manufacturing processes, which include rubber, heating oil, diesel fuel and polystyrene. The Company typically purchases these commodities at market prices, and, as such, is affected by fluctuations in the market prices. For fiscal 2003 and 2002, the total commodity exposure was approximately $33.3 million and $32.0 million, respectively. The impact of a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices would be approximately $3.3 million and $3.2 million, respectively, for fiscal 2003 and 2002. 
 
