ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion and analysis presented below refers to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Form 10 K. In connection with certain conclusions made by the Audit Committee during September and October 2004 as part of its internal review to date, the Company made certain reclassification and restatement adjustments to its fiscal 2004 and prior historical financial statements, as more fully described in Notes 1 and 2 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." Revenue previously disclosed separately as "Bulk Deliveries to Customer Warehouses and Others" has been aggregated with "Operating Revenue" resulting in combined "Revenue" being reported in the financial statements. In addition, the Company changed its accounting method for recognizing income from cash discounts. The Company also reduced its fourth quarter fiscal 2004 results of operations for premature revenue recognition within its Automation and Information Services segment after assessing the impact this segments sales practice had on the Companys results of operations for the three year period ended June 30, 2004. Lastly, the Company restated its financial statements for fiscal 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003 and the first three quarters of fiscal 2004 as a result of various misapplications of GAAP and errors relating primarily to balance sheet reserve and accrual adjustments recorded in prior periods. As a result, the Company supplemented its historical disclosures within "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" to reflect these reclassification and restatement adjustments on previously reported Company and business segment operating earnings performance. All prior period disclosures presented in "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" have been adjusted to reflect these changes. 27 OVERVIEW Cardinal Health is a leading provider of products and services supporting the health care industry. The Company helps health care providers and manufacturers improve the efficiency and quality of health care. For further information regarding the Companys business, please see "Part I, Item 1: Business" within this Form 10 K. Results of Operations The following summarizes the Companys results of operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002. (in millions, except per Common Share amounts) Growth (1) Results of Operations Years ended June 30, 2004 2003 2004 2003 2002 Adjusted Restated Restated Revenue 15% 11% $ 65,053.5 $ 56,731.5 $ 51,144.6 Operating earnings 6% 18% $ 2,337.3 $ 2,196.0 $ 1,857.4 Earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting 10% 21% $ 1,524.7 $ 1,381.2 $ 1,140.8 Net earnings 7% 28% $ 1,474.5 $ 1,375.1 $ 1,070.7 Net diluted earnings per Common Share 11% 30% $ 3.35 $ 3.03 $ 2.33 (1) Growth is calculated as change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to immediately preceding year. During the fiscal years noted in the table above, the results of operations reflect the breadth of products and services the Company offers. The increasing demand for the Companys diverse portfolio of products and services led to revenue growth in every segment of the Company. The Company continues to experience strong demand for integrated solutions from health care providers. These integrated solutions include products and services from multiple lines of businesses within the Company. These arrangements currently represent nearly $7 billion of annual sales. As of June 30, 2004, the Companys operations were organized into four operating business segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services, Medical Products and Services, Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services and Automation and Information Services (see Note 18 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for discussion of changes to business segments resulting from the ALARIS acquisition which will impact fiscal 2005). The results of operations also reflect the increasing operating earnings contribution each segment outside of Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services is making. The three segments outside of Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services have gradually increased the amount of operating earnings contributed to the Company and currently represent more than one half of the Companys operating earnings. The Company expects this trend to continue. As previously reported, the Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business is in the midst of a business model transition with respect to how it is compensated for the logistical, capital and administrative services that it provides to pharmaceutical manufacturers. Historically, the compensation received by the Pharmaceutical Distribution business from pharmaceutical manufacturers was based on each manufacturers unique sales practices (e.g., volume of product available for sale, eligibility to purchase product, cash discounts for prompt payment, rebates, etc.) and pharmaceutical pricing practices (e.g., the timing, frequency and magnitude of product price increases). Specifically, a significant portion of the compensation the Pharmaceutical Distribution business received from manufacturers was derived through the Companys ability to purchase pharmaceutical inventory in advance of pharmaceutical price increases, hold that inventory as manufacturers increased pharmaceutical prices, and generate a higher operating margin on the subsequent sale of that inventory. This compensation system was dependent to a large degree upon the sales practices of each pharmaceutical manufacturer, including established policies concerning the volume of product available for purchase in advance of a price increase, and on stable and predictable pharmaceutical pricing practices. Beginning in fiscal 2003, pharmaceutical manufacturers began to seek greater control over the amount of pharmaceutical product available in the supply chain, and, as a result, began to change their sales practices by restricting the volume of product available for purchase by pharmaceutical wholesalers. In addition, manufacturers have increasingly sought more services from the Company, including the provision of data concerning product sales and distribution patterns. The Company believes these changes have been made to provide greater visibility to pharmaceutical manufacturers over product demand and movement in the market and to increase product safety and integrity by reducing the risks associated with product being available to, and distributed in, the secondary market. Nevertheless, the impact of these changes has significantly reduced the compensation received by the Company from pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, pharmaceutical manufacturers product pricing practices have become less predictable, as the frequency of product price increases generally has slowed versus historical levels. As a result of these actions by pharmaceutical manufacturers, the Company is no longer being 28 adequately and consistently compensated for the reliable and consistent logistical, capital and administrative services being provided by the Company to these manufacturers. In response to the developments discussed above, the Company is working to establish a compensation system that is no longer dependent on manufacturers sales or pricing practices, but rather is based on the services provided by the Company to meet the unique distribution requirements of each manufacturers products. To that end, the Company is working with individual pharmaceutical manufacturers to define fee for service terms that will adequately compensate the Company, in light of each products unique distribution requirements, for the logistical, capital and administrative services being provided by the Company. To accelerate this process, in August 2004, the Company communicated to its pharmaceutical manufacturing vendors a new policy which sets April 1, 2005 or, for manufacturers with an existing agreement with the Company, the next anniversary date of such agreement, as the deadline by which manufacturers must have entered into a mutually satisfactory distribution services agreement with the Company providing for reliable, predictable and adequate compensation for the Companys services. For any manufacturer with which the Company is unable to enter into such a mutually satisfactory agreement, the Company plans to assist such manufacturer in transitioning to another method of distribution. There can be no assurance that this business model transition will be successful, or of the timing of such a successful transition. Revenue and operating earnings growth within the Companys Automation and Information Services segment during fiscal 2004 were lower than historical growth rates. These growth rates were adversely affected by softening demand, attributable to capital spending pressures experienced by hospitals and increased competition within the industry. The Company believes this trend may continue in the short term; however, the Company remains confident in the long term prospects for this segment as patient safety concerns combined with innovative new products continue to lead to future demand. Government Investigations and Audit Committee Internal Review The Company is currently the subject of a formal investigation by the SEC relating to certain accounting matters. The Company also learned that the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York has commenced an inquiry with respect to the Company. Also, the Companys Audit Committee commenced its own internal review, assisted by independent counsel. For further information regarding these matters, see "Part I, Item 3: Legal Proceedings" and Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" in this Form 10 K. Product Safety As a leading provider of products and services supporting the health care industry, including the distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, the Company is monitoring issues regarding importation of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. The Company is sensitive to the issue of pharmaceutical prices and the pricing disparity between domestic and international markets. However, the Company believes that for importation into the United States to be successful additional controls and protections would need to be implemented to ensure patients and consumers receive safe and effective pharmaceutical products. The Company will continue to work proactively with all participants and regulators in the pharmaceutical supply chain to help ensure any solution is safe and efficient. The Company continues to work with its suppliers to help minimize the risks associated with counterfeit products in the supply chain. Acquisitions On June 28, 2004, the Company acquired approximately 98.7% of the outstanding common stock of ALARIS, a leading provider of intravenous medication safety products and services. On July 7, 2004, ALARIS merged with a subsidiary of the Company to complete the transaction. The value of the transaction, including the assumption of ALARIS debt, totaled nearly $2.1 billion. For further information regarding the ALARIS acquisition, the valuation of the acquisitions intangibles, and the impact on segment reporting, see Notes 4, 17 and 18 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." Prior to the completion of the ALARIS acquisition, on June 16, 2004, ICU Medical, Inc. filed a patent infringement lawsuit against ALARIS in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. In the lawsuit, ICU claims that the ALARIS SmartSite(R) family of needle free valves and systems infringes upon ICU patents. ICU seeks monetary damages plus permanent injunctive relief preventing ALARIS from selling SmartSite(R) products. On July 30, 2004, the Court denied ICUs application for a preliminary injunction finding, among other things, that ICU had failed to show a substantial likelihood of success on the merits. The Company intends to vigorously defend this action. During December 2003, the Company completed its acquisition of Intercare, a leading European pharmaceutical products and services company. This acquisition increased the Companys scale of proprietary sterile manufacturing and broadened its participation in the fast growing European generic (including manufacturing capabilities) and injectible product market. The cash 29 transaction was valued at approximately $570 million, including the assumption of approximately $150 million in Intercare debt. See Note 18 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further information regarding the impact this acquisition had on the Companys segment reporting. During fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company completed numerous acquisitions, including, but not limited to, ALARIS, Intercare and Syncor. The Companys trend with regard to acquisitions has been to expand its role as a provider of services to the health care industry. This trend has resulted in expansion into areas which (a) complement the Companys existing operations, and (b) provide opportunities for the Company to develop synergies with, and thus strengthen, the acquired business. As the health care industry continues to change, the Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and intends to continue to seek opportunities to expand its role as a provider of services to the health care industry through all its reporting segments. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully pursue any such opportunity or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. To the extent the Company continues to pursue acquisitions, its ability to complete such transactions may be adversely affected by the government investigations described under "Part I, Item 3: Legal Proceedings" and Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" in this Form 10 K. If additional transactions are pursued or consummated, the Company would incur additional merger and acquisition related costs, and may need to enter into funding arrangements for such mergers or acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following sections provide additional detail regarding the results of operations of the Company and, where applicable, the results of operations of the Companys reportable segments. Revenue Revenue for the Company and its reportable segments are as follows: (in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Restated Restated Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services ("PDPS") Direct Sales to Customers $ 36,222.0 $ 31,833.6 $ 29,317.3 Bulk Revenue (1) 18,009.0 15,426.5 13,680.7 Total PDPS 54,231.0 47,260.1 42,998.0 Medical Products and Services 7,357.6 6,614.7 6,256.7 Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 2,804.1 2,250.0 1,417.5 Automation and Information Services 680.8 666.7 560.2 Corporate (2) (20.0) (60.0) (87.8) Total Company Revenue $ 65,053.5 $ 56,731.5 $ 51,144.6 (1) See discussion below under "Bulk Deliveries to Customer Warehouses and Other" for the Companys definition of Bulk Revenue. (2) Corporate revenue primarily consists of foreign currency translation adjustments and the elimination of intersegment revenue. 30 The following table summarizes the revenue growth rates for the Company and its reportable segments, as well as the percent of Company revenue, excluding Corporate, each segment represents: Percent of Company Growth (1) Revenue Years ended June 30, 2004 2003 2004 2003 2002 Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services 15% 10% 84% 83% 84% Medical Products and Services 11% 6% 11% 12% 12% Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 25% 59% 4% 4% 3% Automation and Information Services 2% 19% 1% 1% 1% Total Company 15% 11% 100% 100% 100% (1) Growth is calculated as change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to immediately preceding year. TOTAL COMPANY. Revenue increased 15% and 11% during fiscal 2004 and 2003, respectively. The revenue growth in these fiscal years resulted from a higher sales volume across each of the Companys segments; revenue growth from existing customers; addition of new customers, some of which resulted from new corporate arrangements with health care providers that integrate the Companys diverse offerings; addition of new products; and pharmaceutical price increases averaging approximately 6% and 5%, respectively, during fiscal 2004 and 2003. In addition, acquisitions completed by the Company during fiscal 2004 and 2003 accounted for approximately 1% of the overall growth for fiscal 2004 and 2003. These increases during fiscal 2004 were partially offset by slower sales growth within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services and Automation and Information services segments. PHARMACEUTICAL DISTRIBUTION AND PROVIDER SERVICES. This segments revenue growth of 15% in fiscal 2004 resulted primarily from strong sales to existing customers, sales to new customers and pharmaceutical price increases. Sales growth to existing customers within the retail chain and alternate site categories in this segments Pharmaceutical Distribution business showed particular strength. This segment also benefited from (1) contract wins during fiscal 2004, (2) pharmaceutical price increases averaging approximately 6% during fiscal 2004, and (3) an extra business day. These revenue gains were partially dampened by continued reduction in business with Kmart Holding Corp. ("Kmart") due to Kmarts closure of various stores and certain contract losses during fiscal 2004 in this segments Pharmaceutical Distribution business. This segments revenue growth of 10% in fiscal 2003 resulted from strong sales to customers within the segments core Pharmaceutical Distribution business, some of which were generated from the addition of new contracts, and pharmaceutical price increases averaging approximately 5%. The most significant growth was in the alternate site and chain pharmacy businesses. The chain pharmacy growth rate would have been stronger had it not experienced a reduction in business with Kmart due to Kmarts closure of various stores in connection with its reorganization. This segments overall revenue growth was partially dampened by the loss of certain customers. MEDICAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. This segments revenue growth of 11% in fiscal 2004 resulted from increased sales momentum from new and existing contracts within the distribution business as well as increased sales volume from the segments international businesses. New contracts drove increased sales of both distributed and self manufactured products, with sales from the distribution business particularly strong during fiscal 2004. The international businesses also generated strong revenue growth, increasing nearly 19% from the prior fiscal year. Approximately 14% of the international business revenue growth, however, related to changes in foreign currency rates. Sales of new self manufactured products, particularly enhancements within surgeon glove products, also contributed to the overall revenue growth. This segments revenue growth was above industry averages during fiscal 2004. This segments revenue growth of 6% in fiscal 2003 resulted from increased sales of both distributed and self manufactured products. The addition of several new contracts with hospitals and health care networks, as well as increased market share in the growing surgery center market contributed to increased sales of distributed and self manufactured products. Increased demand for certain existing self manufactured products, including medical gloves, Medi vac(R) suction canisters, Procedure Based Delivery System(R) kits and other minor procedure trays, accounted for a portion of this segments revenue growth. The addition of new, self manufactured products also contributed to the overall revenue growth in this segment. Some examples of these new, self manufactured products include the Esteem(R) surgeon gloves and the Tiburon(TM) and Astound(TM) fabrics within the Convertors(R) business. 31 PHARMACEUTICAL TECHNOLOGIES AND SERVICES. This segments revenue growth of 25% in fiscal 2004 resulted from acquisitions and sales momentum within the Pharmaceutical Development, Nuclear Pharmacy Services and Packaging Services businesses. Approximately 5% of this segments revenue growth was due to the inclusion of Intercare, an acquisition completed during December 2003. Intercares results of operations are not included in the prior period amounts. Intercares operations have shown considerable sales momentum since the acquisition was completed, particularly the fourth quarter fiscal 2004. Also, this segments revenue growth benefited from the inclusion of Syncor, an acquisition that was completed on January 1, 2003. Syncors results of operations are not included in the amounts for the first half fiscal 2003. Excluding the impact of acquisitions within this segment, revenue growth would have been approximately 2% during fiscal 2004. This segments revenue growth was partially dampened by a delay in startup of commercial manufacturing of key sterile products from signed contracts as certain regulatory inspections and product approvals were delayed in the Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business. This segments revenue growth is not impacted by foreign exchange fluctuations as the Company applies constant exchange rates to translate its foreign operations revenue into U.S. dollars. The impact of actual foreign exchange rate changes for translation purposes is retained within the Corporate segment (see footnote 6 of the table in Note 18 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). This segments revenue growth of 59% in fiscal 2003 resulted from acquisitions and increased demand within the Oral Technologies, Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences, and Packaging Services businesses. The acquisitions of Syncor, effective January 1, 2003, and Boron, LePore & Associates, Inc. (which has been given the legal designation of Cardinal Health 401, Inc., and is referred to in this Form 10 K as "BLP"), effective June 2002, resulted in significant revenue growth in fiscal 2003. BLPs revenue includes customer reimbursements of out of pocket expenses, which generally comprise travel expenses and other incidental costs incurred to fulfill the services required by various contracts and are recorded as gross revenue. Excluding the impact of acquisitions within this segment, revenue growth would have been approximately 7% during fiscal 2003. Product sales from this segments businesses that showed particular strength included Lillys Zyprexa(R) Zydis(R), an anti psychotic; Mylans Amnesteem(TM), a generic drug for the treatment of acne; and Sepracors Xoponex(R), a respiratory drug. The growth within the Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business was negatively impacted by the planned shutdown for twelve weeks of a domestic sterile manufacturing facility to expand capacity. AUTOMATION AND INFORMATION SERVICES. This segments revenue growth of 2% in fiscal 2004 is reflective of the premature revenue recognition adjustment resulting from the Audit Committees internal review as more fully described in Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." Operationally, this segments revenue growth in fiscal 2004 included sales growth within the medication product lines (such as the Pyxis MedStation(R) system) and addition of new products. This segment was adversely affected by a softening of demand at the hospital level. The Company believes this softening is primarily attributable to capital spending pressures experienced by hospitals and an increasingly competitive market. These factors were also seen in the weakening of this segments committed contract backlog. The Company believes this trend may continue in the short term; however, the Company remains confident in the long term prospects for this segment as patient safety concerns combine with innovative new products to drive future demand. In order to aid in the comparability of this segments operating results, during fiscal 2004, the Company recorded a Corporate allocation adjustment to this segments revenue of $21 million representing an estimate of interest income this segment would have earned had the Company not completed sales of its lease receivables. This allocation was recorded within revenue, consistent with the recording of interest income received from sales type leases. The allocation was recorded for comparative purposes to reflect the segments growth rate excluding the impact of the Corporate initiated lease sales. Excluding the impact of this allocation entry, this segments revenue growth would have been negative 1% for fiscal 2004. For more information, see footnote 6 to the table in Note 18 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." This segments revenue growth of 19% in fiscal 2003 resulted from strong sales of new and existing patient safety and supply management product lines, including Pyxis MedStation(R), Pyxis Anesthesia System(TM), Pyxis Connect(TM) and Pyxis SupplyStation(R) systems. In addition, the segments revenue benefited in fiscal 2003 from gains of approximately $10 million, realized upon sales of its sales type lease receivables. Bulk Deliveries to Customer Warehouses and Other As presented historically, the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segments revenue was classified into two categories ("Operating Revenue" and "Bulk Deliveries to Customer Warehouses and Other"). "Bulk Deliveries to Customer Warehouses and Other" has historically included revenue arising from sales where the Company ordered pharmaceutical product in bulk on behalf of a specific warehousing customer and either the manufacturer ships the product directly to the customers warehouse or the product is shipped to the customers warehouse shortly after it is received by the Company and is not put into the Companys inventory (in either case, "Bulk Revenue"). For all Bulk Revenue, the product was shipped to the customer in the same bulk form in which it was received by the Company from the manufacturers. The Company previously (since fiscal 2002) followed an internal policy for distinguishing between Operating Revenue and Bulk Revenue based on how long the product was in the Companys possession prior to being shipped to customers. If the product was in the possession of the Company for more than 24 hours prior to being shipped to customers, then, regardless of other characteristics of the transaction or the reason for the product being held for more than 24 hours, the sale of that product was deemed to be Operating Revenue. The Companys internal policy 32 also provided that customer orders for bulk shipments filled from inventory within the Companys warehouse were deemed to be Operating Revenue if the order for the product had been placed with the manufacturer prior to the Company receiving the bulk order from one of its customers ("Just in Time"). Operating Revenue for bulk shipments for product that was in the possession of the Company for more than 24 hours prior to being shipped to customers (other than with respect to certain bulk shipments intentionally held for more than 24 hours as described in the text following the table) and Just in Time bulk shipments by quarter for the three year period ended June 30, 2004 was approximately as follows: 24 Hour Rule Just in Time (in millions) Fiscal year ended June 30, Fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 First Quarter $191 $ 208 $ 13 $ 351 Second Quarter 187 200 156 74 265 Third Quarter 148 360 155 31 252 157 Fourth Quarter 149 232 155 334 325 Total Year $675 $1,000 $466 $118 $1,202 $482 Based on results of the internal review conducted by the Audit Committee, the Company has concluded that certain bulk shipments ordered by customers were intentionally held for more than 24 hours so that, pursuant to the internal policy, such shipments were classified as Operating Revenue in four quarters within fiscal 2003 and 2002. The Company estimates that approximately $813 million and $414 million being improperly classified as Operating Revenue in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively. The impact of this practice was not previously quantified and disclosed as part of the Companys reported Operating Revenue. The improper classification between Bulk Revenue and Operating Revenue had no impact on the Companys previously reported total revenue or operating or net earnings for these periods. The following table shows the estimated amount of Bulk Revenue that was improperly classified as Operating Revenue in the manner described above, and shows the estimated impact from adjusting each of Bulk Revenue and Operating Revenue for the periods in which these improper classifications occurred: Bulk Revenue Operating Revenue Fiscal Year Ended June 30, Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (in millions) 2003 2002 2003 2002 First Quarter $ $ $ $ Second Quarter 673.0 82.0 (673.0) (82.0) Third Quarter 140.0 (140.0) Fourth Quarter 332.0 (332.0) Total Year $ 813.0 $ 414.0 $ (813.0) $ (414.0) In response to the internal review conducted by the Companys Audit Committee (see "Part I, Item 3: Legal Proceedings" and Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements") and a review of Company policies, the Company has changed its definition of Bulk Revenue. Transactions with the following characteristics will now be defined as Bulk Revenue: (a) deliveries to customer warehouses whereby the Company acts as an intermediary in the ordering and delivery of pharmaceutical products, (b) delivery of products to the customer in the same bulk form as the products are received from the manufacturer, (c) warehouse to customer warehouse or process center deliveries, or (d) deliveries to customers in large or high volume full case quantities. Bulk Revenue under this new definition was $18.0 billion in fiscal 2004, $15.4 billion in fiscal 2003 and $13.7 billion in fiscal 2002. The increase in Bulk Revenue during fiscal 2004 primarily relates to additional volume from existing customers. The increase in Bulk Revenue during fiscal 2003 primarily relates to new customers and additional volume from existing customers. For fiscal 2004, the Company decided to aggregate revenue classes within this Form 10 K. "Operating Revenue" and "Bulk Deliveries to Customer Warehouses and Other" have been combined for all periods presented so that revenue and cost of products sold are presented as single amounts in the consolidated statements of earnings. These reclassifications have no effect on previously reported total revenue, related cost of products sold, net earnings or earnings per share. However, these reclassifications do impact previously reported growth rates which focused solely on Operating Revenue. Beginning with this Form 10 K, information concerning the portion of the Companys revenue that arises from Bulk Revenue will be discussed in the Companys "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." In the past, "Bulk Deliveries to Customer Warehouses and Other" also included certain revenue relating to the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments revenue classified as "Bulk Deliveries to Customer Warehouses and Other" represented reimbursement from customers of certain out of pocket expenses incurred by the Company on behalf of customers and totaled $200.5 million in fiscal 2003. These customer reimbursements will not be included within the Companys definition of Bulk Revenue going forward. 33 Operating Earnings Operating earnings for the Company and its reportable segments are as follows: (in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Restated Restated Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services $ 1,173.4 $ 1,188.1 $ 1,081.0 Medical Products and Services 666.0 591.8 545.2 Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 465.4 368.3 265.0 Automation and Information Services 270.2 266.0 209.2 Corporate (1) (237.7) (218.2) (243.0) Total Company Operating Earnings $ 2,337.3 $ 2,196.0 $ 1,857.4 (1) See Note 18 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a description of Corporate operating earnings. The following table summarizes the operating earnings growth rates for the Company and its reportable segments, as well as the percent of Company operating earnings, excluding Corporate, each segment represents: Percent of Company Growth (1) Operating Earnings Years ended June 30, 2004 2003 2004 2003 2002 Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services (1)% 10% 46% 49% 51% Medical Products and Services 13% 9% 26% 25% 26% Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 26% 39% 18% 15% 13% Automation and Information Services 2% 27% 10% 11% 10% Total Company (2) 6% 18% 100% 100% 100% (1) Growth is calculated as change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to immediately preceding year. (2) The Companys overall operating earnings growth of 6% and 18%, respectively, in fiscal 2004 and 2003 includes the effect of special items. Special items are not allocated to the segments. See Note 4 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further information regarding the Companys special items. TOTAL COMPANY. Total operating earnings increased 6% and 18% during fiscal 2004 and 2003, respectively. The following paragraphs provide a description of the varying dynamics affecting the total Companys operating earnings for fiscal 2004 and 2003. FISCAL 2004. Operating earnings increased 6% during fiscal 2004 primarily as a result of the Companys revenue growth of 15% during the same time period, which yielded a gross margin increase of 6%. Gross margins grew at a slower rate than revenue primarily as a result of: (1) continued dampening effect of reduced vendor margins and competitive pricing within the Pharmaceutical Distribution business driven by changes to its business model (see the "Overview" section for further discussion); (2) increased mix of lower margin distribution business within the Medical Products and Services segment; (3) increased mix of lower margin business, primarily Nuclear Pharmacy Services, within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment; and (4) competitive product and pricing actions within the Automation and Information Services segment. The overall increase in gross margin reflects the increased contributions from the Companys operating segments outside of the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment, which generate higher gross margins and operating earnings (as a percentage of revenue). These segments currently account for more than one half of the Companys operating earnings. The Company expects this trend to continue. Acquisitions completed by the Company accounted for approximately 3% of the operating earnings growth. The increases in revenue and gross margin were partially offset by a 4% increase in selling, general and administrative expenses during fiscal 2004, as well as an increase of $17.5 million in the Companys special items. The overall increase in operating expenses was primarily a result of the additional expenses resulting from acquisitions, higher personnel costs associated with overall business growth and an increase in depreciation and amortization costs. Additionally, the Company continues to invest in research and development and strategic initiatives that will benefit future periods. Investments of approximately $115 million in fiscal 2004 were charged against current operating earnings as incurred. These increases in selling, general and administrative 34 expenses were offset partially by: (1) reduction versus the prior fiscal year in incentive compensation expenses of approximately $64 million due to the performance of the Companys consolidated operations relative to managements expectations and established financial performance metrics, such reductions affecting all of the Companys business segments; and (2) adjustments of certain trade receivable reserves and lower bad debt expenses, combined impact approximately $10 million, due to changes in customer specific credit exposures, as well as improvements in customer credit, billing and collection processes yielding significant reductions in past due and uncollectible accounts. FISCAL 2003. The Company attributes the operating earnings increase of 18% during fiscal 2003 to its revenue growth of 11% during the same time period, which yielded a gross margin increase of 11%. Selling, general and administrative expenses grew 8% during this period primarily due to additional expenses resulting from acquisitions, higher personnel costs associated with the overall business growth and an increase in depreciation and amortization costs. However, selling, general and administrative expenses grew at a slower rate than gross margin which contributed to the overall percentage increase in operating earnings. In addition, a significant contributor of the overall operating earnings increase was a decrease of $76.7 million in the Companys special items due to the recognition of special item income of $101.5 million related to net litigation settlements received by the Company in fiscal 2003 as compared to $33.8 million received in fiscal 2002. PHARMACEUTICAL DISTRIBUTION AND PROVIDER SERVICES. This segments operating earnings declined 1% during fiscal 2004 primarily due to reduced vendor margins caused by the changing business model within the Pharmaceutical Distribution business (as further described in the "Overview" section) and the impact of competitive pricing. Other adjustments which negatively impacted this segment in fiscal 2004 included the following items within the Pharmaceutical Distribution business: (a) an increase in inventory valuation and vendor dispute reserves in the fourth quarter, $11.7 million, and (b) an adverse adjustment in the third quarter, $9.2 million, for vendor margins. In addition, one of several aspects of the business model transition adversely impacting Pharmaceutical Distributions year over year operating earnings is the change in estimation of vendor margin with generic, health and beauty products and pharmaceutical manufacturers, approximately $15.3 million. These declines were partially offset by the following: segment revenue growth of 15% coupled with expense control; change in accounting for cash discounts resulting in additional gross margin of $20.0 million in fiscal 2004 (see additional discussion of the accounting change in Notes 16 and 19 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"); favorable year over year impact, $14.7 million, from changes in last in, first out ("LIFO") reserve; favorable year over year impact of lower incentive compensation expense; favorable year over year impact of certain non recurring expenses recorded in fiscal 2003 relating to operations from the Bindley acquisition; and favorable year over year impact of $34 million charge recorded in fiscal 2003 relating to the segments vendor margins with its generic suppliers. This segments operating earnings increase of 10% during fiscal 2003 resulted primarily from the following: segment revenue growth of 10%; change in timing of income recognition for pharmaceutical manufacturers payments under existing inventory management agreements from a modified cash basis to an accrual basis resulting in a favorable gross margin impact of approximately $13 million recorded in the third quarter; expense controls, which resulted in a decrease of 6% in selling, general and administrative expenses; and favorable year over year impact, $12.4 million, relating to changes in Corporate expenses allocated to this segment. Also contributing to the improvement in fiscal 2003 year over year performance were certain non recurring expenses of approximately $40 million recorded in fiscal 2002 associated with operations acquired as part of the Bindley acquisition. These non recurring expenses in fiscal 2002 were partially offset by a $23 million benefit recognized in the same period as a result of changes in the Companys LIFO calculation with respect to generic products in order to more accurately reflect inflationary indices. The segments operating earnings in fiscal 2003 were negatively impacted by the $5.2 million year over year impact within the Pharmaceutical Distribution business of the business model transition impacting its vendor margins with generic, health and beauty products and pharmaceutical vendors. MEDICAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. This segments operating earnings growth of 13% during fiscal 2004 resulted primarily from this segments revenue growth of 11% during the same time period, led by sales momentum from distribution contracts and gains within international markets. This segment also realized manufacturing productivity improvements resulting in gross margin gains. In addition, operating earnings benefited from lower incentive compensation expense versus prior year. This segments operating earnings growth was partially dampened by the increased mix of lower margin distributed products, competitive pricing within the industry and an increase of approximately $9 million in raw material prices. This segments operating earnings growth of 9% during fiscal 2003 resulted from this segments revenue growth of 6% during the same time period and the ability to leverage this revenue growth into additional gross margin gains. This segments gross margin was positively impacted by increased sales of existing and new higher margin, self manufactured products, manufacturing efficiencies achieved during the fiscal year and outsourcing of some product manufacturing to more cost efficient areas. In 35 addition, operating earnings benefited from various required balance sheet reserve adjustments, approximately $8.2 million, recorded during the year relating to historical customer and vendor disputes. The operating earnings growth rate was negatively affected by: (1) impact of new distribution agreements which increased sales of lower margin distributed products in fiscal 2003; (2) increased Corporate expenses, $2.5 million, allocated to this segment; and (3) a one time adjustment recorded in fiscal 2002 to transfer the segments incentive compensation expenses, approximately $15 million, to the Corporate segment. This adjustment was recorded in the Corporate segment as the business segments stand alone incentive compensation program in effect at the time would have resulted in no incentive compensation expense for the year; however, a corporate management decision was made to include the segments employees in the Companys overall incentive compensation program in advance of integrating various employee benefit programs. PHARMACEUTICAL TECHNOLOGIES AND SERVICES. This segments operating earnings growth of 26% during fiscal 2004 resulted primarily from this segments revenue growth of 25% during the same time period, with sales momentum in the Pharmaceutical Development, Nuclear Pharmacy Services and Packaging Services businesses showing particular strength. This segment also benefited from acquisitions completed by the Company, specifically Intercare and Syncor. The acquisition of Intercare was completed during the second quarter fiscal 2004 and, therefore, its results of operations are not included in the prior period. Also, Syncors results of operations are not included in the first half of fiscal 2003 since the acquisition was completed on January 1, 2003. Excluding the impact of acquisitions within this segment, operating earnings growth would have been approximately 8% during fiscal 2004. This segments gross margin as a percentage of revenue was negatively impacted by the increase in services provided by the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business, which has a lower gross margin ratio as compared to the other businesses within this segment. The segments operating earnings also benefited year over year by reduced incentive compensation expenses. Operating earnings growth was dampened by the delay in startup of commercial manufacturing of certain sterile products as discussed in this segments revenue discussion. In addition, this segments operating earnings growth is not impacted by foreign exchange fluctuations as the Company applies constant exchange rates to translate its foreign operations operating earnings into U.S. dollars. The impact of actual foreign exchange rate changes for translation purposes is retained within the Corporate segment (see footnote 6 to the table in Note 18 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). This segments operating earnings growth of 39% during fiscal 2003 resulted primarily from this segments revenue growth of 59% during the same time period, as discussed above in the "Revenue" section. Excluding the impact of acquisitions within this segment, operating earnings growth would have been approximately 13% during fiscal 2003. The deleveraging effect between gross margin and revenue within this segment was primarily driven by the addition of Syncors Nuclear Pharmacy Services business and the addition of BLPs customer reimbursements of out of pocket expenses incurred to fulfill services required by various contracts. Syncor has a lower gross margin ratio than the other businesses within this segment, and BLP records these customer reimbursements gross within revenue and cost of products sold, but generates no margin from them. AUTOMATION AND INFORMATION SERVICES. This segments operating earnings growth of 2% during fiscal 2004 was impacted by the premature revenue recognition adjustment resulting from the Audit Committees internal review as more fully described in Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." This segments operating earnings growth during fiscal 2004 resulted, in part, from this segments revenue growth of 2% during the same time period in conjunction with operational improvements and favorable product mix. In addition, this segment benefited from a reduction in receivable reserves and lower bad debt expenses, combined impact approximately $8.2 million, due to improvements in customer specific credit matters, as well as general improvements in customer credit, billing and collection procedures, resulting in significant reductions in past due and uncollectible accounts. The segments operating earnings also benefited year over year from reduced (a) incentive compensation expenses, and (b) Corporate expense allocation of $1.5 million. As mentioned in this segments revenue discussion, the Company recorded, for comparative purposes, a Corporate allocation of $21 million to this segment representing estimated interest income this segment would have earned had the Company not initiated the sale of its lease receivables. Excluding the impact of this allocation, this segments operating earnings growth would have been negative 6% during fiscal 2004. See this segments discussion under "Revenue" for additional information regarding this allocation entry. This segments operating earnings growth of 27% during fiscal 2003 resulted primarily from this segments revenue growth of 19% during the same time period in conjunction with an improved mix of higher margin products sold and productivity gains realized from operational improvements. In addition, operating earnings during fiscal 2003 included gains of approximately $10 million from sales of sales type leases. 36 Special Items The following is a summary of the Companys special items: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (in millions, except per Common Share amounts) 2004 2003 2002 Restated Merger related costs $ 44.7 $ 74.4 $ 131.9 Restructuring costs 37.1 67.0 18.5 Litigation settlements, net (62.3) (101.5) (33.8) Other special items 37.9 Total special items $ 57.4 $ 39.9 $ 116.6 See Note 4 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for detail of the Companys special items during fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002. Interest Expense and Other The decrease in interest expense and other of $16.4 million during fiscal 2004 and $17.2 million during fiscal 2003 resulted from lower interest rates and borrowing levels due to the Companys strong operating cash flow. The Company manages its exposure to interest rates using various hedging strategies (see Notes 3 and 7 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). Also included within interest expense and other are gains and losses recognized from transactions outside of the Companys ordinary course of business (e.g., sales of lines of businesses or individual facilities as well as adjustments of equity investments). The following summarizes the more significant transactions that occurred during fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002. During fiscal 2004, the Company recorded net gains of approximately $11.9 million and $6.3 million related to the sale of non strategic businesses within its Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services and Medical Products and Services segments. The Company also recorded a $6.8 million gain related to the sale of land within its Medical Products and Services segment. In addition, the Company recorded a $4.2 million asset impairment charge relating to domestic intellectual property rights within its Automation and Information Services segment. During fiscal 2003, the Company recorded a net gain of approximately $17.6 million related to the sale of a non strategic business within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment and a gain of $8.0 million as a result of a payment the Company received in exchange for amending a contract within the Automation and Information Services segment (releasing the Companys exclusivity rights in a designated territory). Also within fiscal 2003, the Company recorded a loss of $7.9 million related to the write off of certain obsolete assets as a result of a system implementation within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment. During fiscal 2002, the Company recorded a net gain of approximately $22.4 million related to the sale of a non strategic business which was partially offset by losses related to asset abandonments within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, $11.5 million, and Medical Products and Services segment, $4.6 million. Provision for Income Taxes The provisions for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of changes in accounting were 31.9% of pretax earnings in fiscal 2004, 33.6% in fiscal 2003 and 33.8% in fiscal 2002. Fluctuations in the effective tax rate are primarily due to changes within state and foreign effective tax rates resulting from the Companys business mix and changes in the tax impact of special items, which may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item and the taxing jurisdiction. The Companys effective tax rate reflects tax benefits derived from increasing operations outside the United States, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent. During fiscal 2004, the Companys provision for income taxes benefited from increased profits from production in lower tax international countries (e.g., Thailand and the Dominican Republic). The Company has subsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico under a tax incentive agreement expiring in 2019, as well as a tax agreement in place with Thailand that expires in 2013. Loss from Discontinued Operations See Note 21 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for information on the Companys discontinued operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND SENSITIVE ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that can have a significant impact on the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and require use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing the Companys financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see Note 3 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." 37 ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS. Trade receivables comprise amounts owed to the Company through its operating activities and are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company also provides financing to various customers. Such financing arrangements range from one year to ten years at interest rates that generally fluctuate with the prime rate. These financings may be collateralized, guaranteed by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivables are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and are included in other assets. Extending credit terms and calculating the required allowance for doubtful accounts involve the use of judgment by the Companys management. In determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, which includes general and specific reserves, the Company reviews accounts receivable agings, industry trends, customer financial strength, credit standing and payment history to assess the probability of collection. The Company continuously monitors the collectibility of its receivable portfolio by analyzing the aging of its accounts receivable, assessing credit worthiness of its customers and evaluating the impact of changes in economic conditions that may impact credit risks. If the frequency or severity of customer defaults increases due to changes in customers financial condition or general economic conditions, the Companys allowance for uncollectible accounts may require adjustment. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of customer receivables was 3.3% and 4.1% at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The decrease was a result of adjustments to certain trade receivable reserves due to changes in customer specific credit exposures, as well as improvements in customer credit, billing and collections processes. A hypothetical 0.1% increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables to the fiscal 2004 reserve would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $4.2 million. The Company believes the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal year 2004 are appropriate and consistent with historical methodologies employed. The favorable net effect results from improvements in the Companys credit and collection practices and actual experiences. The total reserve at June 30, 2004 and 2003 exceeds the total Company receivable balance greater than 60 days past due at those same dates. See Schedule II included in this Form 10 K which includes a rollforward of activity for these allowance reserves. INVENTORIES. A majority of inventories (approximately 66% in 2004 and 68% in 2003) are stated at the lower of cost, using the LIFO method, or market, and are primarily merchandise inventories. The remaining inventory is primarily stated at the lower of cost, using the first in, first out ("FIFO") method, or market. If the Company had used the FIFO method of inventory valuation, which approximates current replacement cost, inventories would have increased $57.8 million and $61.4 million in fiscal 2004 and 2003, respectively. Below is a reconciliation of FIFO inventory to LIFO inventory: June 30, (in millions) 2004 2003 Restated FIFO inventory $ 7,529.1 $ 7,632.3 LIFO reserve valuation (57.8) (61.4) Total inventory $ 7,471.3 $ 7,570.9 Inventories recorded on the Companys consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory. The Company reserves for inventory obsolescence using estimates based on historical experiences, sales trends, specific categories of inventory and age of on hand inventory. If actual conditions are less favorable than the Companys assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required, however these would not be expected to have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial statements. GOODWILL. The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." Under SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer amortized, but instead tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Accordingly, the Company does not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily customer relationships and patents and trademarks, continue to be amortized over their useful lives. In conducting the impairment test, the fair value of the Companys reporting units is compared to its carrying amount including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, further analysis is performed to assess impairment. 38 The Companys impairment analysis is based on a review of the price/earnings ratio for companies similar in nature, scope and size. The use of alternative estimates, peer groups or changes in the industry could affect the estimated fair value of the assets and potentially result in impairment. Any identified impairment would result in adjustment to the Companys results of operations. The Company completed the required impairment testing in fiscal 2004 and 2003 and did not incur any impairment charges. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS. Assumptions and estimates are used in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of the Companys acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets which require management to use significant judgment in determining fair value. The Company typically utilizes third party valuation experts ("Valuation Experts") for this process. In addition, current and future amortization expense for such intangibles is impacted by purchase price allocations as well as the assessment of estimated useful lives of such intangibles, excluding goodwill. The Company believes the assets recorded and the useful lives established are appropriate based upon current facts and circumstances. In conjunction with the review of a transaction, the Valuation Experts assess the status of the acquired companys research and development projects to determine the existence of in process research and development ("IPR&D"). The Company has not historically recorded significant costs related to IPR&D. However, in conjunction with the recent acquisition of ALARIS, the Company was required to estimate the fair value of acquired IPR&D which required selecting an appropriate discount rate and estimating future cash flows for each project. Management also assessed the current status of development, nature and timing of efforts to complete such development, uncertainties and other factors when estimating the fair value. Costs were not assigned to IPR&D unless future development was probable. Once the fair value was determined, an asset was established and immediately written off as a special item in the Companys consolidated statement of earnings. The Company recorded $12.7 million as a special item in fiscal 2004 representing an estimate of ALARIS IPR&D (see Note 4 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). SPECIAL ITEMS. The Companys special items consist primarily of costs that relate to the integration of previously acquired companies or costs of restructuring operations to improve productivity. Integration costs from acquisitions accounted for under the pooling of interests method have been recorded in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs incurred in a Restructuring)," and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 100, "Restructuring and Impairment Charges." Certain costs related to these acquisitions, such as employee and lease terminations and other facility exit costs, were recognized at the date the integration plan was adopted by management. Certain other integration costs that did not meet the criteria for accrual at the commitment date have been expensed as the integration plan has been implemented. The costs associated with integrating acquired companies under the purchase method are recorded in accordance with EITF Issue No. 95 3, "Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination." Certain costs to be incurred by the Company, as the acquirer, such as employee and lease terminations and other facility exit costs, are recognized at the date the integration plan is formalized and adopted by management. Certain other integration costs that do not meet the criteria for accrual at the commitment date are expensed as the integration plan is implemented. At the beginning of the third quarter fiscal 2003, the Company implemented SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities," to account for costs incurred in restructuring activities. Under this standard, a liability for an exit cost is recognized as incurred. As discussed above, the Company previously accounted for costs associated with restructuring activities under EITF Issue No. 94 3, which required the Company to recognize a liability for restructuring costs on the date of the commitment to an exit plan. The majority of the special items related to acquisitions and restructurings can be classified in one of the following categories: employee related costs, exit costs (including lease termination costs), asset impairments and other integration costs. Employee costs include severance and termination benefits. Lease termination costs include lease cancellation fees, forfeited deposits and remaining payments due under existing lease agreements less estimated sublease income. Other facility exit costs include costs to move equipment or inventory out of a facility as well as other costs incurred to shut down a facility. Asset impairment costs include the remaining net book value of assets no longer used as a result of the integration or restructuring activities. Other integration costs primarily include charges directly related to the integration plan such as consulting costs related to information systems and employee benefit plans as well as relocation and travel costs directly associated with the integration plan. Actual costs could differ from managements estimates. If actual results are different from original estimates, the Company will record additional expense or reverse previously recorded expenses. These adjustments will be recorded as special items. 39 The Company also records settlements of significant lawsuits that are infrequent, non recurring or unusual in nature as special items. See Note 4 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement" for additional information. VENDOR RESERVES. In determining an appropriate vendor reserve, the Company assesses historical experience and current outstanding claims. The Company researches and resolves contested transactions based on discussions with vendors, Company policy and findings of research performed. At any given time, there are outstanding items in various stages of research and resolution. The ultimate outcome of certain claims may be different than the Companys original estimate and may require adjustment. However, the Company believes reserves recorded for such disputes are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. INCOME TAX RESERVES. The Company has established an estimated liability for federal, state and foreign income tax exposures that arise and meet the criteria for accrual under SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies." This liability addresses a number of issues for which the Company may have to pay additional taxes (and interest) when all examinations by taxing authorities are concluded. The Company has developed a methodology for estimating its tax liability related to such matters and has consistently followed such methodology from period to period. The liability amounts for such matters are based on an evaluation of the underlying facts and circumstances, a thorough research of the technical merits of the Companys arguments, and an assessment of the chances of the Company prevailing in its arguments. In all cases, the Company considers previous IRS findings. The Company generally consults with external tax advisers in researching its conclusions. Amounts accrued for a particular period are not adjusted upward or downward unless a significant change in facts or circumstances has occurred and been formally documented. LOSS CONTINGENCIES. The Company accrues for contingencies related to litigation in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies," which requires the Company to assess contingencies to determine degree of probability and range of possible settlement. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in the Companys consolidated financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the settlement can be reasonably estimated. Assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. The Company regularly reviews contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of ultimate settlement may differ from these estimates. SELF INSURANCE ACCRUALS. The Company is self insured for employee medical and dental insurance programs. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $23.0 million and $12.8 million for estimated costs related to outstanding claims at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, administrative fees and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. These estimates are based on the Companys assessment of outstanding claims, historical analysis and current payment trends. The Company records an estimate for the claims incurred but not reported using an estimated lag period. This lag period assumption has been consistently applied for the periods presented. If the lag period was adjusted by a period equal to a half month, the impact on earnings would be $4.7 million. However, the Company believes the liabilities recorded are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. The Company is also self insured for various general liability and workers compensation claims. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $48.0 million and $39.2 million for anticipated costs related to general liability and workers compensation at June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, defense costs and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. These estimates are based on the Companys assessment of outstanding claims, historical analysis, actuarial information and current payment trends. The amount of ultimate liability in respect to these matters may differ from these estimates. 40 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Sources and Uses of Cash The following table summarizes the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002: Fiscal Years Ended June 30, (in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Restated Restated Cash provided by/(used in): Operating activities $2,624.7 $1,398.0 $ 983.9 Investing activities ($2,437.0) ($ 343.7) ($ 650.9) Financing activities ($ 815.7) ($ 712.3) $ 114.9 OPERATING ACTIVITIES. Cash provided by operating activities nearly doubled during fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 primarily due to an increase in accounts payable and increased earnings from continuing operations. The primary driver of the increase in accounts payable was due to the timing of payments at fiscal year end, as well as inventory buys executed shortly before fiscal year end within the Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business. In addition, as a result of certain non recurring end of year arrangements, payments to vendors in fiscal 2004 were reduced by $258 million due to the acceleration of payments at June 30, 2003 to selected pharmaceutical vendors. Such arrangements resulted in changes to the original payment terms with the vendors for which an economic consideration was exchanged between both parties. The Companys overall investment in inventories declined during fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 due primarily to the changing business model of the Pharmaceutical Distribution business (see the "Overview" section earlier within "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"). This business model change should continue to have a positive impact on the Companys operating cash flows in the near term, reducing the Companys inventory on hand and moderating historical seasonal fluctuations in working capital. For further discussion of changes within the Companys earnings from continuing operations, see the "Results of Operations" section. Additionally, the Companys operating cash flow benefited by approximately $99.3 million during fiscal 2004 due to sales of lease receivables from the Companys Automation and Information Services segment. See Note 10 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for information regarding sales of lease receivables. Cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2003 increased $414.1 million as compared to fiscal 2002 primarily due to (a) increased earnings from continuing operations, and (b) sales of lease receivables, which benefited the Companys operating cash flow by $247.6 million in fiscal 2003 as compared to $97.8 million in fiscal 2002. These positive factors were partially offset by year over year impact of (i) end of year payments to selected pharmaceutical vendors, approximately $370 million, for which economic consideration was exchanged between both parties; and (ii) accelerated end of year customer receipts, approximately $152 million, for which economic consideration was exchanged between both parties. The positive factors were also partially offset by increases in trade receivables and inventories. The increase in trade receivables was driven by the Companys revenue growth. The increase in inventories resulted primarily from increased sales across each of the Companys segments. The rate of increase in inventories was less than in prior years due to the impact of branded to generic product conversions, vendor inventory policies and inventory management agreements. Synergies realized from the Bindley integration also lowered the Companys investment in inventory. INVESTING ACTIVITIES. Cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002 primarily represents the Companys use of cash to complete acquisitions which expand its role as a provider of services to the health care industry (see "Acquisitions and Divestitures" within "Part I, Item 1: Business" for further information regarding the Companys acquisitions); and develop and enhance the Companys infrastructure, including facilities, information systems and other machinery and equipment. During these fiscal years, the Company has focused on developing the infrastructure within its Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment. The uses of cash noted above were partially offset by proceeds received from the sale of property, equipment and other assets, as well as proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations during fiscal 2004 and 2003. FINANCING ACTIVITIES. The Companys financing activities utilized cash of $815.7 million and $712.3 million during fiscal 2004 and 2003, respectively, and provided cash of $114.9 million during fiscal 2002. Cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2004 and 2003 primarily reflects the Companys decision to repurchase its shares as authorized by its Board of Directors (see "Share Repurchases" below for additional information). These cash outflows for fiscal 2004 and 2003 were partially offset by net proceeds received from the Companys debt facilities (see "Capital Resources" below for additional information) and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans. Cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2002 primarily reflects the issuance of $300 million of Notes, partially offset by repurchase of the Companys shares. International Cash The Companys cash balance of approximately $1.1 billion as of June 30, 2004, includes $299.3 million of cash held by its subsidiaries outside of the United States. Although the vast majority of cash held outside the United States is available for repatriation, doing so could subject it to United States federal income tax. 41 Share Repurchases During fiscal 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Companys Board of Directors approved, and management completed, several share repurchase programs. These share repurchase programs, in the aggregate, allowed the Company to repurchase $3.0 billion of the Companys shares. During fiscal 2004, the Company repurchased approximately 24.2 million shares having an average price paid per share of $62.03. During fiscal 2003, the Company repurchased approximately 19.6 million shares having an average price paid per share of $60.77. During fiscal 2002, the Company repurchased approximately 5.1 million shares having an average price paid per share of $60.24. The repurchased shares were placed into treasury to be used for general corporate purposes. See "Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" within "Part I, Item 5: Market for the Registrants Common Shares, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities" for further information regarding the Companys most recent share repurchase program. Capital Resources In addition to cash, the Companys sources of liquidity include a $1.5 billion commercial paper program backed by $1.5 billion of bank revolving credit facilities, a $150 million extendible commercial note program and a committed receivables sales facility program with capacity to sell $500 million in receivables. Subsequent to June 30, 2004, the capacity under the committed receivables sales facility program was increased to $800 million and the Company sold in the aggregate $800 million in receivables under the program (for more information regarding this committed receivables sales facility program, see Note 10 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). Also subsequent to June 30, 2004, the Company received a commitment letter for a $500 million committed borrowing facility to be used for general corporate purposes. This facility is in the process of being negotiated. As of June 30, 2004, $634.2 million of commercial paper was backed by the $1.5 billion of bank revolving credit facilities, with the remaining facilities unused. The Company also has lines of credit of approximately $183.7 million, of which $68.4 million was outstanding as of June 30, 2004. The Company maintains two $750 million bank revolving credit facilities. These facilities are available for general corporate purposes; however, they are primarily used as backstop liquidity for the Companys commercial paper program. During the third quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company refinanced its maturing 364 day, $750 million revolving credit facility with a new five year, $750 million revolving credit facility. Management believes that the extension to a five year facility enhanced the Companys liquidity profile by reducing refinancing risk at nominal marginal cost. In connection with adding the new five year revolving credit facility, the Company also amended its existing five year $750 million revolving credit facility during the third quarter of fiscal 2004 to administratively conform it to the new five year revolving credit facility. Subsequent to June 30, 2004, the Company borrowed $1.25 billion in the aggregate on its revolving credit facilities. The proceeds from the Companys revolving credit facilities were utilized to repay a significant portion of the Companys commercial paper program, none of which remained outstanding as of the filing date of this Form 10 K, and for general corporate purposes, including the establishment of pharmaceutical inventory at the Pharmaceutical Distribution business National Logistics Center in Groveport, Ohio. The Company had an asset securitization facility which allowed the Company to sell receivables generated from its radiopharmaceutical operations to a wholly owned subsidiary, which in turn sold the receivables to a multi seller conduit administered by a third party bank. This facility allowed for borrowings up to $65 million. This securitization facility was terminated in fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2004, the Company retired two series of $100 million Notes which matured in 2004. During fiscal 2003 and 2002, the Company issued $500 million of 4.00% Notes (due 2015) and $300 million of 4.45% Notes (due 2005), respectively. The proceeds of the debt issuances were used for repayment of a portion of the Companys indebtedness and general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments. As of June 30, 2004, the Company, pursuant to a shelf registration statement filed with the SEC, has the capacity available for issuance of up to $500 million of equity and debt securities. During fiscal 2001, the Company entered into an agreement to periodically sell trade receivables to a special purpose accounts receivable and financing entity (the "Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity"), which is exclusively engaged in purchasing trade receivables from, and making loans to, the Company. The Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity, which is consolidated by the Company, issued $250 million and $400 million in preferred variable debt securities to parties not affiliated with the Company during fiscal 2004 and 2001, respectively. These preferred debt securities are classified as long term debt in the Companys consolidated balance sheet. These preferred debt securities must be retired or redeemed by the Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity before the Company, or its creditors, can have access to the Accounts Receivable and Financing Entitys receivables. From time to time, the Company considers and engages in acquisition transactions in order to expand its role as a leading provider of services to the health care industry. The Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and intends to continue to seek opportunities to expand its role as a provider of services to the health care industry through all its reporting segments. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, the Company may need to enter into funding arrangements for such mergers or acquisitions. The Company currently believes that, based upon existing cash, operating cash flows, available capital resources (as discussed above) and other available market transactions, it has adequate capital resources at its disposal to fund currently anticipated capital 42 expenditures, business growth and expansion, contractual obligations and current and projected debt service requirements, including those related to business combinations. Debt Ratings/Covenants The Companys senior debt credit ratings from S&P, Moodys and Fitch are BBB, Baa3 and BBB+, respectively, the commercial paper ratings are A 3, P 3 and F 2, respectively, and the ratings outlooks are "negative," "on review for possible further downgrade" and "negative," respectively. Further reductions in the Companys credit ratings could negatively impact its ability to access capital as well as its ability to issue additional debt securities at currently available interest rates. The Companys various borrowing facilities and long term debt, except for the preferred debt securities as discussed below, are free of any financial covenants other than minimum net worth which cannot fall below $4.1 billion at any time. As of June 30, 2004, the Company was in compliance with this covenant. The Companys preferred debt securities contain a minimum adjusted tangible net worth covenant (adjusted tangible net worth cannot fall below $3.0 billion) and certain financial ratio covenants. As of June 30, 2004, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants would be followed by a grace period during which the Company may discuss remedies with the security holders, or extinguish the securities, without causing an event of default. Interest Rate and Currency Risk Management The Company uses forward currency exchange contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to cash flow variability. The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to protect the value of its existing foreign currency assets and liabilities and the value of its debt. See Notes 3 and 7 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives, including foreign currency hedging instruments. As a matter of policy, the Company rarely engages in "speculative" transactions involving derivative financial instruments. During fiscal 2003, the Company entered into one speculative interest rate swap transaction resulting in a gain of approximately $6.7 million. This gain was recorded in interest expense and other per the consolidated statement of earnings. Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2004, the Companys contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total On Balance Sheet: Long term debt (1) $ 849.9 $ 808.4 $ 803.3 $1,200.9 $3,662.5 Capital lease obligations (2) 5.1 8.8 5.5 7.8 27.2 Other long term liabilities (3) 7.3 15.5 11.6 36.6 71.0 Off Balance Sheet: Operating leases (4) 109.1 137.7 79.4 109.1 435.3 Purchase obligations (5) (6) 2,412.3 57.5 11.7 10.2 2,491.7 Total financial obligations $3,383.7 $1,027.9 $ 911.5 $1,364.6 $6,687.7 (1) Represents maturities of the Companys long term debt obligations, as shown on the balance sheet. See Note 6 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further information. (2) Represents maturities of the Companys capital lease obligations, included within long term debt on the Companys balance sheet. (3) Represents cash outflows by period for certain of the Companys long term liabilities in which cash outflows could be reasonably estimated. The primary items included are estimates of the Companys pension and other post retirement benefit obligations as well as accrued marketing fees and other long term liabilities. Certain long term liabilities, such as deferred taxes, have been excluded from the table above as there are no cash outflows associated with the liabilities or the timing of the cash outflows cannot reasonably be estimated. (4) Represents minimum rental payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms as described in Note 11 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The Company also has required lease payments based upon LIBOR 43 which are not included in the above amounts due to variability related to such payments. See description of these leases in Note 10 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." (5) Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and specifying all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which the Company is obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally cancelled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from the Companys total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. The significant amount disclosed within fiscal 2005, as compared to other periods, primarily represents obligations to purchase inventories within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment. (6) The Company has certain obligations to repurchase franchisee pharmacies from its Medicine Shoppe and Medicap businesses at the end of the term of the franchise renewal agreement. These obligations are determined through third party appraisals and are for periods beyond fiscal 2009. At this time, the Company cannot estimate the amount of these obligations and therefore has not included them in this presentation. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS See Note 10 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a discussion of off balance sheet arrangements. OTHER RECENT FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS. See Note 3 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS. See Notes 1 and 2 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a discussion of the SEC investigation, U.S. Attorney inquiry and Audit Committee internal review, and certain reclassification and restatement adjustments the Company made to its fiscal 2004 and prior historical financial statements in connection with certain conclusions made by the Audit Committee during September and October 2004 as part of its internal review to date. See also Note 22 in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for discussion of subsequent events after June 30, 2004. 44 ITEM 7a: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations as a result of certain market risks. These market risks primarily relate to foreign exchange, interest rate, and commodity related changes. The Company maintains a comprehensive hedging program to manage volatility related to these market exposures. It employs operational, economic, and derivative financial instruments in order to mitigate risk. See Notes 3 and 7 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion regarding the Companys use of derivative instruments. FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATE SENSITIVITY. By nature of the Companys global operations, it is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations resulting from foreign exchange rate variation. These exposures are transactional and translational in nature. Since the Company manufactures and sells its products throughout the world, its foreign currency risk is diversified. Principal drivers of this diversified foreign exchange exposure include the European euro, Mexican peso, British pound and the Thai bhat. Transactional Exposure The Companys transactional exposure arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than the functional currency of the parent or its subsidiaries. As part of its risk management program, at the end of each fiscal year the Company performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted transactional exposure for the upcoming fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar. Included in the analysis is the estimated impact of its hedging program, which mitigates the Companys transactional exposure. At June 30, 2004 and 2003, the Company had hedged approximately 52% and 61% of its transactional exposures, respectively. The following table summarizes the analysis as it relates to the Companys transactional exposure (in millions): 2004 2003 Net estimated transactional exposure $332.8 $221.8 Sensitivity gain/loss (1) 33.3 22.2 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (17.2) (13.4) Estimated net gain/loss $ 16.1 $ 8.8 (1) Impact of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening of the U.S dollar. Translational Exposure The Company also has exposure related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign divisions into U.S dollars, functional currency of the parent. It performs a similar analysis as described above related to this translational exposure. The Company does not typically hedge any of its translational exposure and no hedging impact was included in the Companys analysis at June 30, 2004 and 2003. The following table summarizes the Companys translational exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening in the U.S dollar (in millions): 2004 2003 Net estimated translational exposure $208.3 $108.8 Sensitivity gain/loss (1) $ 20.8 $ 10.9 (1) Impact of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening of the U.S dollar. The increase in net estimated translational exposure between fiscal 2004 and 2003 resulted primarily from international acquisitions completed during fiscal 2004. 45 INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY. The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing and investing activities to maintain liquidity and fund business operations. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions, and other factors. The Companys policy is to manage exposures to interest rates using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt as deemed appropriate by management. The Company utilizes interest rate swap instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate movements. As part of its risk management program, the Company annually performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted exposure to interest rates for the following fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. At June 30, 2004 and 2003, the potential increase or decrease in interest expense under this analysis as a result of this hypothetical change was $6.4 million and $3.2 million, respectively. COMMODITY PRICE SENSITIVITY. The Company purchases certain commodities for use in its manufacturing processes, which include rubber, heating oil, diesel fuel, and polystyrene. The Company typically purchases these commodities at market prices, and as a result, is affected by price fluctuations. As part of its risk management program, the Company performs sensitivity analysis on its forecasted commodity exposure for the following fiscal year. At June 30, 2004 and 2003, the Company had not hedged any of these exposures. The table below summarizes the Companys analysis of these forecasted commodity exposures and a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices as of June 30, 2004 and 2003 (in millions): 2004 2003 Estimated commodity exposure $32.4 $33.3 Sensitivity gain/loss (1) $ 3.2 $ 3.3 (1) Impact of a hypothetical 10% change in commodity market prices. The Company also has exposure to certain energy related commodities, including natural gas and electricity through its normal course of business. These exposures result primarily from operating the Companys distribution, manufacturing, and corporate facilities. In certain deregulated markets, the Company from time to time enters into long term purchase contracts to supply these items at a specific price. 
 
