Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis presented below refers to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Form 10 K. In connection with certain conclusions made by the Audit Committee during September and October 2004 as part of its ongoing internal review and prior to filing the 2004 Form 10 K, the Company made certain reclassification and restatement adjustments to its fiscal 2004 and prior historical consolidated financial statements, which were reflected in the 2004 Form 10 K. As a result, the Company supplemented its historical disclosures within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to reflect these reclassification and restatement adjustments on previously reported Company and business segment operating earnings performance. All prior period disclosures presented in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations have been adjusted to reflect these changes. OVERVIEW Cardinal Health is a leading provider of products and services supporting the health care industry. The Company helps health care providers and manufacturers improve the efficiency and quality of health care. For further information regarding the Companys business, please see Part I, Item 1: Business within this Form 10 K. 32 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following summarizes the Companys results of operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005, 2004 and 2003. (in millions, except per Common Share amounts) Growth (1) Results of Operations Years ended June 30, 2005 2004 2005 2004 2003 Revenue 15 % 15 % $ 74,910.7 $ 65,053.5 $ 56,731.5 Operating earnings (25 )% 7 % $ 1,762.8 $ 2,348.8 $ 2,187.0 Earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting (31 )% 10 % $ 1,046.7 $ 1,524.7 $ 1,381.2 Net earnings (29 )% 7 % $ 1,050.7 $ 1,474.5 $ 1,375.1 Net diluted earnings per Common Share (28 )% 11 % $ 2.41 $ 3.35 $ 3.03 (1) Growth is calculated as change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to immediately preceding year. The results of operations during the fiscal years noted in the table above reflect the breadth of products and services the Company offers and the increasing demand for the Companys diverse portfolio of products and services, which led to revenue growth in every segment of the Company. The Company continues to experience strong demand from health care providers for the Company to provide integrated solutions. Integrated solutions include products and services from multiple lines of businesses within the Company, and currently represent approximately $7 billion of annual sales. The Companys operations are organized into four reportable segments, Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services, Medical Products and Services, Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services and Clinical Technologies and Services. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of changes to business segments during fiscal 2005. The Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business is in a business model transition with respect to how it is compensated for the logistical, capital and administrative services that it provides to branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. Historically, the compensation received by the Pharmaceutical Distribution business from branded pharmaceutical manufacturers was based on each manufacturers unique sales practices (e.g., volume of product available for sale, eligibility to purchase product, cash discounts for prompt payment, rebates, etc.) and pharmaceutical pricing practices (e.g., the timing, frequency and magnitude of product price increases). Specifically, a significant portion of the compensation the Pharmaceutical Distribution business received from manufacturers was derived from the Companys ability to purchase pharmaceutical inventory in advance of pharmaceutical price increases, hold that inventory as manufacturers increased pharmaceutical prices, and generate a higher operating margin on the subsequent sale of that inventory. This compensation system was dependent to a large degree upon the sales practices of each branded pharmaceutical manufacturer, including established policies concerning the volume of product available for purchase in advance of a price increase, and on predictable pharmaceutical pricing practices. Beginning in fiscal 2003, branded pharmaceutical manufacturers began to seek greater control over the amount of pharmaceutical product available in the supply chain, and, as a result, began to change their sales practices by restricting the volume of product available for purchase by pharmaceutical wholesalers. In addition, manufacturers have increasingly sought more services from the Company, including providing data concerning product sales and distribution patterns. The Company believes that the manufacturers have sought these changes to provide them with greater visibility over product demand and movement in the market and to increase product safety and integrity by reducing the risks associated with product being available to, and distributed in, the secondary market. These changes have significantly reduced the compensation received by the Company from branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. As a result of these actions by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers, the Company concluded it was no longer being adequately and consistently compensated for the reliable and consistent logistical, capital and administrative services being provided by the Company to these manufacturers. In response to the developments discussed above, the Company has established a compensation system that is significantly less dependent on manufacturers sales or pricing practices, and is based on the services provided by the Company to meet the unique distribution requirements of each manufacturers products. During fiscal 2005, the Company worked with individual branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to define fee for service terms that adequately compensate the Company based on the services being provided to such manufacturers. The initial fee for service transition is essentially complete, which should help reduce earnings volatility in the segment. As part of the transition to fee for service terms, certain of the new distribution service agreements entered into with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers continue to have an inflation based compensation component to them. Arrangements with certain other branded manufacturers still continue to be solely inflation based. If branded pharmaceutical price inflation is lower than the 33 Table of Contents Company has anticipated, its operating results could be adversely affected with respect to its current exposure to contingent fee based compensation in its Pharmaceutical Distribution business. In addition, certain key distribution service agreements will be re negotiated in the latter half of fiscal 2006 and into fiscal 2007 when their initial terms expire. If the terms of the re negotiated agreements are unfavorable to the Company, it could adversely affect the Companys operating results. Revenue and operating earnings within the Pyxis products business of the Clinical Technologies and Services segment declined significantly during fiscal 2005. The decline was a result of the following: a lengthened sales and installation cycle; the delayed introduction of Pyxis MedStation 3000, the next generation of Pyxis medication management system; increased competition within the industry; and the impact from the Audit Committees internal review, as more fully described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which created execution issues as the efforts and attention of certain sales and installation teams were diverted from ordinary business operations. The Company believes that these adverse conditions impacted the Pyxis products business in the short term, and it remains confident in the long term prospects for this business due to the expected efficiencies from the formation of the Clinical Technologies and Services segment, the greater efficiency to be realized from new installation processes and continuing customer demand for products and services focusing on patient safety. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Pyxis products business established momentum for fiscal 2006 as evidenced by its increased committed contracts primarily for its new product, Pyxis MedStation 3000. Operating earnings within the Companys Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment declined during fiscal 2005. The decline was due in part to the continued delays in opening new facilities and existing facilities operating below planned capacity within the Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business, including the Humacao, Puerto Rico facility. The Company decided to close the sterile manufacturing facility in Humacao, Puerto Rico as part of the global restructuring program associated with its One Cardinal Health initiative. These operations had underperformed relative to Company expectations, due in part to continued regulatory issues at the facility. The decision does not affect the Companys other operations in Puerto Rico or at other locations worldwide. In addition, the operating earnings decline within this segment was also the result of lower demand for medical communication services within the Healthcare Marketing Services business. The adverse conditions experienced by the segment were partially offset by the strength of certain softgel and controlled release products, as well as the year over year impact of acquisitions. Global Restructuring Program As previously reported, during fiscal 2005, the Company launched a global restructuring program in connection with its One Cardinal Health initiative with the goal of increasing the value the Company provides its customers through better integration of existing businesses and improved efficiency from a more disciplined approach to procurement and resource allocation. The Company expects the program to be substantially complete by the end of fiscal 2008 and to improve operating earnings and position the Company for future growth. The actual operating earnings improvements for fiscal 2005 were estimated by the Company to have been in excess of the expected improvement of $125 million. The program is expected to improve operating earnings by approximately $190 million for fiscal 2006. The Company expects the program to be implemented in two phases. The first phase of the program focuses on business consolidations and process improvements, including rationalizing facilities worldwide, reducing the Companys global workforce, and rationalizing and discontinuing overlapping and under performing product lines. See the Form 8 K filed by the Company on December 14, 2004 for a description of the costs the Company expects to incur in connection with the first phase of the program. The second phase of the program will focus on longer term integration activities that will enhance service to customers through improved integration across the Companys segments, and continue to streamline internal operations. See the Form 8 K filed by the Company on August 5, 2005 for a description of the costs the Company expects to incur in connection with the second phase of the program. See Notes 4 and 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the restructuring costs incurred by the Company during fiscal 2005 related to both phases of the global restructuring program. 34 Table of Contents Government Investigations and Board Committee Internal Reviews The Company is currently the subject of a formal investigation by the SEC relating to certain accounting matters and the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York is conducting an inquiry with respect to the Company. The Companys Audit Committee also is conducting its own internal review, assisted by independent counsel, which internal review is ongoing. In addition, a Board committee, with the assistance of independent counsel, is separately conducting an internal review to assign responsibility for the matters relating to the Companys accounting treatment of certain recoveries from vitamin manufacturers, which internal review is also ongoing. Settlement discussions have recently commenced with the SEC regarding resolution of its investigation with respect to the Company, and the Company has recorded a reserve of $25 million for fiscal 2005 in respect of the SEC investigation. For further information regarding these matters, see Part I, Item 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10 K. Product Safety As a leading provider of products and services supporting the health care industry, including the distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products, the Company is monitoring issues regarding the safety of the supply chain for pharmaceuticals and other health care products. The Company will continue to work proactively with all participants and regulators in the pharmaceutical supply chain to help ensure it is safe and efficient. The Company continues to work with its suppliers to help minimize the risks associated with counterfeit products in the supply chain. Acquisitions On June 28, 2004, the Company acquired approximately 98.7% of the outstanding common stock of Alaris, a provider of intravenous medication safety products and services. On July 7, 2004, Alaris merged with a subsidiary of the Company to complete the transaction. The value of the transaction, including the assumption of Alaris debt, totaled approximately $2.1 billion. For further information regarding the Alaris acquisition, the valuation of the acquisitions intangibles, and the impact on segment reporting, see Notes 4, 17 and 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior to the completion of the ALARIS acquisition, on June 16, 2004, ICU Medical, Inc. filed a patent infringement lawsuit against ALARIS in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. In the lawsuit, ICU claims that the ALARIS SmartSite family of needle free values and systems infringes upon ICU patents. ICU seeks monetary damages plus permanent injunctive relief preventing ALARIS from selling SmartSite products. On July 30, 2004, the Court denied ICUs application for a preliminary injunction finding, among other things, that ICU had failed to show a substantial likelihood of success on the merits. The Company intends to vigorously defend this action. During December 2003, the Company completed its acquisition of Intercare, an European pharmaceutical products and services company. The cash transaction was valued at approximately $570 million, including the assumption of approximately $150 million in Intercare debt. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the impact that this acquisition had on the Companys segment reporting. During fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Company completed numerous acquisitions, including, Alaris, Intercare and Syncor. The Companys trend with regard to acquisitions has been to expand its role as a provider of services to the health care industry. This trend has resulted in expansion into areas that complement the Companys existing operations and provide opportunities for the Company to develop synergies with, and strengthen, the acquired business. As the health care industry continues to change, the Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and intends to take advantage of opportunities to expand its role as a provider of services to the health care industry through all its reporting segments. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully take advantage of any such opportunity or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. To the extent that the Company continues to pursue acquisitions, its ability to complete such transactions may be adversely affected by the government investigations described under Part I, Item 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10 K. If additional transactions are pursued or consummated, the Company would incur additional merger and acquisition related costs, and may need to enter into funding arrangements for such mergers or acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful. 35 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following sections provide additional detail regarding the results of operations of the Company and, where applicable, the results of operations of the Companys reportable segments. Revenue Revenue for the Company and its reportable segments are as follows: For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (1) (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services (PDPS) Non Bulk Revenue $ 36,759.4 $ 34,325.2 $ 30,301.4 Bulk Revenue (2) 24,084.4 18,009.0 15,426.5 Total PDPS 60,843.8 52,334.2 45,727.9 Medical Products and Services 9,824.0 9,143.5 8,024.9 Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 2,975.8 2,804.1 2,250.0 Clinical Technologies and Services 2,189.3 1,550.6 1,410.3 Corporate (3) (922.2 ) (778.9 ) (681.6 ) Total Company Revenue $ 74,910.7 $ 65,053.5 $ 56,731.5 (1) See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of changes to business segments during fiscal 2005. (2) See discussion below within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services section for the Companys definition of Bulk Revenue. (3) Corporate revenue primarily consists of the elimination of intersegment revenue for all periods presented and foreign currency translation adjustments in fiscal 2004 and 2003. See footnote 6 of Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the foreign currency translation adjustments. The following table summarizes the revenue growth rates for the Company and its reportable segments, as well as the percent of Company revenue, excluding Corporate, each segment represents: Percent of Company Growth (1) Revenue Years ended June 30, 2005 2004 2005 2004 2003 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services 16 % 14 % 80 % 80 % 80 % Medical Products and Services 7 % 14 % 13 % 14 % 14 % Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 6 % 25 % 4 % 4 % 4 % Clinical Technologies and Services 41 % 10 % 3 % 2 % 2 % Total Company 15 % 15 % 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Growth is calculated as change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to immediately preceding year. Total Company. Total Company revenue increased 15% during each of fiscal 2005 and 2004. The revenue growth in these fiscal years resulted from the following: a higher sales volume across each of the Companys segments; revenue growth from existing customers; the addition of new customers, some of which resulted from new corporate arrangements with health care providers that integrate the Companys diverse offerings; the addition of new products; pharmaceutical price increases within its Pharmaceutical Distribution business averaging approximately 4.9% and 6.2%, respectively, during fiscal 2005 and 2004; and the year over year impact of acquisitions. 36 Table of Contents These increases during fiscal 2005 were partially offset by slower revenue growth within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment and a decline in revenue from Pyxis products within the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services revenue growth of 16% in fiscal 2005 resulted from strong sales to customers within this segments core Pharmaceutical Distribution business. The most significant growth was in Bulk Revenue (defined below), which increased approximately 34%. See the Bulk Revenue discussion below for further details. In addition, annualized pharmaceutical price increases of approximately 4.9% contributed to the growth in this segment. However, the rate of price increases was lower than the rate experienced over the prior fiscal year. As discussed in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10 K, during fiscal 2004, the Company decided to aggregate revenue classes. Operating Revenue and Bulk Deliveries to Customer Warehouses and Other were combined for all periods presented so that total revenue and total cost of products sold are presented as single amounts in the consolidated statements of earnings. Beginning with the 2004 Form 10 K, information concerning the portion of the Companys revenue that arises from Bulk Revenue is discussed in the Companys Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. For more information regarding this reclassification, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment reports transactions with the following characteristics as Bulk Revenue: deliveries to customer warehouses whereby the Company acts as an intermediary in the ordering and delivery of pharmaceutical products; delivery of products to the customer in the same bulk form as the products are received from the manufacturer; warehouse to customer warehouse or process center deliveries; or deliveries to customers in large or high volume full case quantities. Bulk Revenue for fiscal 2005 was $24.1 billion compared to $18.0 billion in fiscal 2004. The increase in Bulk Revenue primarily relates to additional volume from existing and new customers as well as market growth within the mail order business. The increase from existing customers is primarily due to certain customers purchasing from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer. The Company continues to provide disclosure concerning its bulk sales due to the differences in the nature and character of the business activities associated with bulk and non bulk revenues. Non bulk activities tend to be more complex as the Company receives inventory in large or full case sizes from the manufacturer, breaks it down into smaller sizes, warehouses the product, picks products specific to a customers order and delivers that order to customer locations (such as retail pharmacies or individual hospitals) generally on a just in time basis and in small sizes. While certain of the above activities occur with some bulk transactions, bulk typically involves much larger sizes, generally in unopened cases or full pallets, which are shipped either directly from the manufacturer or from the Company to customers own warehousing facilities. The Companys classification of sales as bulk or non bulk also corresponds to its four business operations within Pharmaceutical Distribution. Applying the definition set forth above, all revenue in the brokerage and trading operations is classified as bulk. All revenue in the repackaging operation is classified as non bulk. Within the core facilities operation, revenue is classified as bulk or non bulk on a customer by customer basis, based solely upon the type of customer involved. Shipments to warehouses and processing centers (primarily retail chain and mail order customers) are classified as bulk revenue. All other core facilities revenue is classified as non bulk revenue. This segments revenue growth of 14% in fiscal 2004 resulted primarily from strong sales to existing customers, sales to new customers and pharmaceutical price increases. Sales growth to existing customers within the retail chain and alternate site categories in this segments Pharmaceutical Distribution business showed particular strength. This segment also benefited from contract wins during fiscal 2004, pharmaceutical price increases averaging approximately 6.2% during fiscal 2004 and an extra business day. These revenue gains were partially dampened by continued reduction in business with Kmart Holding Corp. (Kmart) due to Kmarts closure of various stores and certain contract losses during fiscal 2004 in this segments Pharmaceutical Distribution business. Medical Products and Services. The Medical Products and Services revenue growth of 7% in fiscal 2005 resulted primarily from increased volume from existing customers, new contracts signed during fiscal 2004 within the medical surgical distribution business, strong international growth, especially in Canada and Europe, favorable foreign exchange translation and increased revenue from the Specialty Distribution business. The 6% growth in the medical surgical distribution business was primarily from increased sales to hospital supply and ambulatory care customers and the 11% growth within the Specialty Distribution business resulted from increased revenue from the business largest customer and growth of the existing customer base. This segments revenue growth was adversely affected by slower growth in the sale of self manufactured products, and the loss of certain business from customers within a GPO. The Specialty Distribution business largest customer has notified the Company that they will begin self distribution on January 1, 2006 which will significantly impact revenue and operating earnings for this business during the second half of fiscal 2006. This customer represented approximately $1.5 billion or 16% of this segments fiscal 2005 revenue. The Company plans to partially mitigate this loss through the addition of a large, new customer agreement signed in April 2005 and cost cutting measures. This segments revenue growth of 14% in fiscal 2004 resulted primarily from increased sales momentum from new and existing contracts within the distribution business as well as from increased sales volume from the segments international businesses. New contracts drove increased sales of both distributed and self manufactured products, with sales from the distribution business particularly strong during fiscal 2004. The international businesses also generated strong revenue growth, increasing nearly 19% from the prior fiscal year. Approximately 14% of the international business revenue growth related to 37 Table of Contents changes in foreign currency rates. Sales of new self manufactured products, particularly enhancements within surgeon glove products, also contributed to the overall revenue growth. This segments revenue growth was above industry averages during fiscal 2004. Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments revenue growth of 6% in fiscal 2005 resulted primarily from strong demand for certain softgel products, the impact of acquisitions, primarily Intercare and the acquisition of Geodax within the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business, and the impact of foreign exchange rates. Revenue growth was offset by certain regulatory issues as noted below. The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures within this segment accounted for approximately 5% of the revenue growth in fiscal 2005. Revenue in fiscal 2005 increased by approximately 2% as a result of the impact of foreign exchange rates. This impact takes into consideration the fiscal 2005 rate fluctuations due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar and the fiscal 2004 constant rate adjustment (see footnote 6 to the table in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion as it relates to fiscal 2004 constant rate adjustment). The segments growth was adversely affected by the continued delays in opening new facilities and existing facilities operating below planned capacity within the Companys Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business, including underperformance at the Humacao, Puerto Rico facility. The segments growth was also adversely affected by lower demand for medical communication services within the Healthcare Marketing Services business. This segments revenue growth of 25% in fiscal 2004 resulted from acquisitions and sales momentum within the Pharmaceutical Development, Nuclear Pharmacy Services and Packaging Services businesses. Approximately 5% of this segments revenue growth was due to the inclusion of Intercare, an acquisition completed during December 2003. Intercares results of operations are not included in the prior period amounts. Intercares operations had considerable sales momentum after the acquisition was completed, particularly in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. Also, this segments revenue growth benefited from the inclusion of Syncor, an acquisition that was completed on January 1, 2003. Syncors results of operations are not included in the amounts for the first half fiscal 2003. Acquisitions within this segment accounted for approximately 23% of the revenue growth during fiscal 2004. This segments fiscal 2004 revenue growth was partially dampened by a delay in startup of commercial manufacturing of key sterile products from signed contracts as certain regulatory inspections and product approvals were delayed in the Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business. Revenue growth was not impacted by foreign exchange fluctuations as the Company applied constant exchange rates to translate its foreign operations revenue into U.S. dollars. The impact of actual foreign exchange rate changes for translation purposes is retained within the Corporate segment (see footnote 6 of the table in Note 18 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Clinical Technologies and Services. The Clinical Technologies and Services revenue growth of 41% in fiscal 2005 resulted primarily from the impact of the acquisition of Alaris and strong revenue growth within the Clinical Services and Consulting business offset by significant revenue declines within the Pyxis products business. The Alaris acquisition accounted for approximately 41% of this segments total revenue growth for fiscal 2005. Alaris results of operations are not included in the prior period amounts. The Pyxis products business experienced a revenue decline of approximately 17% in fiscal 2005 due to the following: a lengthened sales and installation cycle; the delayed introduction of Pyxis MedStation 3000, the next generation of Pyxis medication management system; increased competition within the industry; and the impact from the Audit Committees internal review, as more fully described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which created execution issues as the efforts and attention of certain sales and installation teams were diverted from ordinary business operations. The Company believes that these adverse conditions impacted the Pyxis products business in the short term, and it remains confident in the long term prospects for this business due to the expected efficiencies from the formation of the Clinical Technologies and Services segment, the greater efficiency to be realized from new installation processes and continuing customer demand for products and services focusing on patient safety. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Pyxis products business established momentum for fiscal 2006 as evidenced by its increased committed contracts primarily for its new product, Pyxis MedStation 3000. In fiscal 2004, the Pyxis products business sold portions of its leased asset portfolio at the direction of Corporate. The proceeds were transferred to Corporate, and the Pyxis products business subsequently received a $21.0 million allocation from Corporate related to the estimated interest income that would have been earned had the associated lease portfolios not been sold. This allocation was recorded within revenue, consistent with the recording of interest income received from sales type leases. Effective the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Pyxis products business did not receive this Corporate allocation. See footnote 6 to the table in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 38 Table of Contents The Clinical Technologies and Services segments revenue growth of 10% in fiscal 2004 is reflective of the premature revenue recognition adjustment resulting from the Audit Committees internal review as more fully described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Operationally, this segments revenue growth in fiscal 2004 included sales growth within the medication product lines (such as the Pyxis MedStation system), the addition of new products and 12% growth within the Clinical Services and Consulting business. This segment was adversely affected by a softening of demand at the hospital level for Pyxis products. As discussed above, in order to aid in the comparability of this segments operating results, during fiscal 2004, the Company recorded a Corporate allocation adjustment to this segments revenue of $21.0 million representing an estimate of interest income this segment would have earned had the Company not completed sales of its lease receivables. Operating Earnings Operating earnings for the Company and its reportable segments are as follows: For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (1) (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services $ 1,040.2 $ 1,061.5 $ 1,086.2 Medical Products and Services (2) 672.4 694.4 624.1 Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 337.0 465.4 368.3 Clinical Technologies and Services 273.2 336.6 316.7 Corporate (2) (3) (4) (560.0 ) (209.1 ) (208.3 ) Total Company Operating Earnings $ 1,762.8 $ 2,348.8 $ 2,187.0 (1) See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of changes to business segments during fiscal 2005. (2) The cost of the Companys shared service center in Albuquerque New Mexico, which was previously reported within the Corporate segment, has been classified within the Medical Products and Services operating earnings for fiscal 2004 and 2003 to more accurately reflect the costs within the segment which received the benefits from the shared service center. The cost of these services was approximately $18.2 million, $18.4 million and $19.0 million, respectively, for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003. (3) Corporate operating earnings primarily include special items, impairment charges, investment spending and unallocated corporate administrative expenses. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of Corporate operating earnings. (4) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company will modify the way in which corporate costs are allocated to the business segments to better align corporate spending with the business segments based on the benefits received. The presentation of the first quarter of fiscal 2006 results will include a re allocation of the historical segment amounts for comparative purposes. The following table summarizes the operating earnings growth rates for the Company and its reportable segments, as well as the percent of Company operating earnings, excluding Corporate, each segment represents: Percent of Company Growth (1) Operating Earnings Years ended June 30, 2005 2004 2005 2004 2003 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services (2 )% (2 )% 45 % 42 % 45 % Medical Products and Services (3 )% 11 % 29 % 27 % 26 % Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services (28 )% 26 % 14 % 18 % 16 % Clinical Technologies and Services (19 )% 6 % 12 % 13 % 13 % Total Company (2) (25 )% 7 % 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Growth is calculated as change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to immediately preceding year. (2) The Companys overall operating earnings growth of (25)% and 7%, respectively, in fiscal 2005 and 2004 includes the effect of special items and impairment charges. Special items and impairment charges are not allocated to the segments. 39 Table of Contents See Notes 4 and 21 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Companys special items and impairment charges. Total Company operating earnings decreased 25% and increased 7% during fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. The following paragraphs provide a description of the varying dynamics affecting the total Companys operating earnings for fiscal 2005 and 2004. Total Company. Total Company operating earnings decreased 25% during fiscal 2005 as a result of declining operating earnings in each of the Companys reportable segments. The Companys gross margins were dampened primarily by the following: reduced vendor margins within the Pharmaceutical Distribution business driven primarily by changes in branded pharmaceutical manufacturers sales and pricing practices (see the Overview section for further discussion) and competitive pricing; increased mix of lower margin distribution business, competitive pricing and increased raw material and fuel costs within the Medical Products and Services segment; continued regulatory issues adversely affecting manufacturing efficiencies within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment; and a lengthened sales and installation cycle, new product launch delays and increased competition within the Pyxis products business in the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. Total Company operating earnings were also adversely affected by the unfavorable impact related to special items of $264.2 million in fiscal 2005. These increased costs related to the Companys global restructuring program associated with its One Cardinal Health initiative, the SEC investigation and Audit Committee internal review and related matters and the integration of certain acquisitions, which were partially offset by settlements received in antitrust and vitamin litigation (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). In addition, the Company recorded $118.0 million for asset impairments during fiscal 2005 compared to gains of $11.5 million in fiscal 2004 (see Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). Total Company operating earnings for fiscal 2005 were also impacted by the following: the favorable impact of approximately $31.7 million from changes in the LIFO reserve, primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories, lower inventory levels and lower price increases related to branded pharmaceutical inventories; an increase in profit sharing expense of approximately $38.9 million compared to fiscal 2004; an increase in incentive compensation expense of approximately $36.3 million compared to fiscal 2004; expenses of approximately $28.2 million within the Medical Products and Services segment related to the estimated remaining liabilities and settlement of insurance proceeds due for outstanding latex litigation; purchase accounting adjustments related to the Alaris acquisition, which included an inventory valuation adjustment to fair value, and the adjusted, higher cost inventory being sold, adversely affecting gross margins by approximately $23.6 million; product line rationalization and inventory and accounts receivable reserve adjustments within the Pyxis products business of approximately $30.3 million; an increase in inventory reserves within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment of approximately $14.7 million related to a generic manufacturers bankruptcy and $10.0 million related to slow moving inventory; and an increase in audit and audit related fees of approximately $7.5 million compared to fiscal 2004 due to increased costs associated with complying with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, expanded audit procedures and a revision in the allocation of audit and audit related fees to fiscal periods. Total Company operating earnings increased 7% during fiscal 2004 primarily as a result of the Companys revenue growth of 15% during the same time period, which yielded a gross margin increase of 6%. Gross margins grew at a slower rate than revenue primarily as a result of the following: the continued dampening effect of reduced vendor margins and competitive pricing within the Pharmaceutical Distribution business driven by changes to its business model (see the Overview section for further discussion); an increased mix of lower margin distribution business within the Medical Products and Services segment; an increased mix of lower margin business, primarily Nuclear Pharmacy Services business, within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment; and competitive product and pricing actions within the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. 40 Table of Contents The overall increase in gross margin in fiscal 2004 reflects the increased contributions from the Companys operating segments outside of the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment, which generate higher gross margins and operating earnings (as a percentage of revenue). These segments accounted for more than one half of the Companys operating earnings. Acquisitions completed by the Company accounted for approximately 3% of the operating earnings growth. The increases in revenue and gross margin were partially offset by a 4% increase in selling, general and administrative expenses during fiscal 2004 as well as an increase of $17.5 million in the Companys special items. The overall increase in operating expenses was primarily a result of the additional expenses resulting from acquisitions, higher personnel costs associated with overall business growth and an increase in depreciation and amortization costs. Additionally, the Company continued to invest in research and development and strategic initiatives that will benefit future periods. Investments of approximately $115 million in fiscal 2004 were charged against current operating earnings as incurred. These increases in selling, general and administrative expenses were offset partially by a reduction versus the prior fiscal year in incentive compensation expenses of approximately $64 million due to the performance of the Companys consolidated operations relative to managements expectations and established financial performance metrics. Such reduction affected all of the Companys business segments. The expense increases were also offset by adjustments of certain trade receivable reserves and lower bad debt expenses, with a combined impact of approximately $10 million, due to changes in customer specific credit exposures and improvements in customer credit, billing and collection processes yielding significant reductions in past due and uncollectible accounts. In addition, operating earnings included $11.5 million of net gains on the sale of certain businesses and assets which were recorded in impairment charges and other. Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services operating earnings decreased 2% during fiscal 2005 primarily as a result of reduced vendor margins resulting from changes in branded pharmaceutical manufacturers sales and pricing practices, as discussed above in the Overview section, and competitive pricing pressures. As discussed above, branded pharmaceutical manufacturers have changed their sales practices by restricting product available for purchase by pharmaceutical wholesalers. In addition, branded pharmaceutical manufacturers product pricing practices have become less predictable, as the frequency of price increases has slowed and the amounts have decreased versus historical levels. For fiscal 2005, annualized pharmaceutical price increases were approximately 4.9% compared to 6.2% in fiscal 2004. During fiscal 2005, the Company worked with individual branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to define fee for service terms that adequately compensate the Company based on the services being provided to such manufacturers. The initial fee for service transition is essentially complete, which should help reduce earnings volatility in the segment. This segments operating earnings were also favorably impacted by $31.7 million from changes in the LIFO reserve primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories, lower inventory levels and lower price increases related to branded pharmaceutical inventories. Operating earnings were also impacted by improved margins from generic products and expense control within the Pharmaceutical Distribution business which resulted in lowering selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. In addition, operating earnings during fiscal 2005 were adversely impacted by approximately $14.7 million for inventory reserves related to a generic manufacturers bankruptcy, approximately $10.0 million related to slow moving inventory reserves and approximately $7.8 million as a result of inventory rationalization of certain health and beauty care products. This segments operating earnings decreased 2% during fiscal 2004 primarily due to reduced vendor margins caused by the changing business model within the Pharmaceutical Distribution business (as further described in the Overview section) and the impact of competitive pricing. Other adjustments within the Pharmaceutical Distribution business that negatively impacted this segment in fiscal 2004 included an increase in inventory valuation and vendor dispute reserves in the fourth quarter of approximately $11.7 million and an adverse adjustment in the third quarter of approximately $9.2 million for vendor margins. In addition, one of several aspects of the business model transition adversely impacting Pharmaceutical Distributions year over year operating earnings was the change in estimation of vendor margin with generic, health and beauty products and pharmaceutical manufacturers with an impact of approximately $15.3 million. These declines were partially offset by the following: segment revenue growth of 14% coupled with expense control; a change in accounting for cash discounts resulting in additional gross margin of $20.0 million in fiscal 2004 (see additional discussion of the accounting change in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); a favorable year over year impact of $14.7 million from changes in LIFO reserve; a favorable year over year impact of lower incentive compensation expense; a favorable year over year impact of certain non recurring expenses recorded in fiscal 2003 relating to operations from the Bindley acquisition; and a favorable year over year impact of $34 million charge recorded in fiscal 2003 relating to the segments vendor margins with its generic suppliers. 41 Table of Contents Medical Products and Services. The Medical Products and Services segments operating earnings decreased 3% during fiscal 2005 primarily as a result of pricing pressures related to self manufactured products, increased raw material and fuel costs, an increased mix of lower margin distributed products, and competitive pricing on a large GPO contract. Operating earnings were also adversely impacted by a $28.2 million charge for latex litigation as more fully described within Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative expenses grew 10% during fiscal 2005 primarily due to the charge for latex litigation described above and higher personnel costs associated with the overall business growth. These items were partially offset by revenue growth of 7%, manufacturing efficiencies, expense control related to the Companys global restructuring program and incremental operating earnings from new customers. This segments operating earnings growth of 11% during fiscal 2004 resulted primarily from revenue growth of 14% during the same time period, led by sales momentum from distribution contracts and gains within international markets. This segment also realized manufacturing productivity improvements resulting in gross margin gains. In addition, operating earnings benefited from lower incentive compensation expense versus prior year. This segments operating earnings growth was partially dampened by the increased mix of lower margin distributed products, competitive pricing within the industry and an increase of approximately $9 million in raw material prices. Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments operating earnings decreased 28% during fiscal 2005 primarily due to the continued delays in opening new facilities and existing facilities operating below planned capacity within the Companys Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business, including underperformance at the Humacao, Puerto Rico facility. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company decided to close the sterile manufacturing facility in Humacao, Puerto Rico as part of its global restructuring program. These operations had underperformed relative to Company expectations, due in part to continued regulatory issues at the facility. The decision does not affect the Companys other operations in Puerto Rico or at other locations worldwide. In addition, the operating earnings in this segments Healthcare Marketing Services business were adversely affected by lower demand for medical communication services. Operating earnings were also adversely impacted by approximately $8.0 million related to the write down of inventory within the Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business. The operating earnings declines were partially offset by the strength of certain softgel and controlled release products, and the year over year impact of acquisitions of approximately 6%. The impact of foreign exchange rates on operating earnings did not significantly affect the fiscal 2005 growth rates above. This takes into consideration the fiscal 2005 rate fluctuations due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar and the fiscal 2004 constant rate adjustment. See footnote 6 to the table in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion as it relates to the fiscal 2004 constant rate adjustment and the change made in fiscal 2005. This segments operating earnings growth of 26% during fiscal 2004 resulted primarily from revenue growth of 25% during the same time period, with sales momentum in the Pharmaceutical Development, Nuclear Pharmacy Services and Packaging Services businesses showing particular strength. This segment also benefited from acquisitions completed by the Company, specifically Intercare and Syncor. The acquisition of Intercare was completed during the second quarter fiscal 2004 and, therefore, its results of operations are not included in the prior period. Also, Syncors results of operations are not included in the first half of fiscal 2003 because the acquisition was completed on January 1, 2003. Acquisitions within this segment accounted for approximately 18% of the operating earnings growth during fiscal 2004. This segments gross margin as a percentage of revenue was negatively impacted by the increase in services provided by the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business, which has a lower gross margin ratio as compared to the other businesses within this segment. The segments operating earnings also benefited year over year by reduced incentive compensation expenses. Operating earnings growth was dampened by the delay in startup of commercial manufacturing of certain sterile products as discussed in this segments Revenue discussion. In addition, this segments fiscal 2004 operating earnings growth was not impacted by foreign exchange fluctuations as the Company applied constant exchange rates to translate its foreign operations operating earnings into U.S. dollars. The impact of actual foreign exchange rate changes for translation purposes was retained within the Corporate segment in fiscal 2004. See footnote 6 to the table in Note 18 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion as it relates to the fiscal 2004 constant rate adjustment and the change made in fiscal 2005. 42 Table of Contents Clinical Technologies and Services. The Clinical Technologies and Services segments operating earnings decreased 19% during fiscal 2005 primarily from decreased operating earnings within the Pyxis products business that were not completely offset by the acquisition benefit from the Alaris transaction. The Pyxis products business performance was impacted by: decreased revenue of 17% for fiscal 2005; lower unit margins due to adverse year over year sales mix; more aggressive price discounting in the market place;. a product line rationalization and inventory and accounts receivable reserve adjustments of approximately $30.3 million; and the positive segment allocation adjustments recorded during fiscal 2004 of $21 million for the estimated interest income that the business would have earned from assets sold as part of the leased asset portfolio sales (which proceeds from such sales were returned to Corporate for general corporate requirements). The Alaris acquisition improved operating earnings by approximately 26% for fiscal 2005. The results of operations from this acquisition are not included in the prior period amounts. Operating results from Alaris, while incremental to the segments results year over year, were adversely impacted by the effect of purchase accounting adjustments recorded during the first two quarters of fiscal 2005. These adjustments included an inventory valuation adjustment to fair value and the adjusted, higher cost inventory being sold, which adversely affected gross margins by approximately $23.6 million. This segments operating earnings growth of 6% during fiscal 2004 was impacted by the premature revenue recognition adjustment resulting from the Audit Committees internal review as more fully described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This segments operating earnings growth during fiscal 2004 resulted, in part, from this segments revenue growth of 10% during the same time period in conjunction with operational improvements within the Pyxis products business and expense control within the Clinical Services and Consulting business. In addition, this segment benefited from a reduction in receivable reserves and lower bad debt expenses, with a combined impact of approximately $8.2 million, due to improvements in customer specific credit matters and general improvements in customer credit, billing and collection procedures, resulting in significant reductions in past due and uncollectible accounts. The segments fiscal 2004 operating earnings also benefited year over year from reduced incentive compensation expenses and a Corporate expense allocation of $1.5 million. As mentioned in this segments revenue discussion, the Company recorded, for comparative purposes, a Corporate allocation of $21.0 million to this segment representing estimated interest income this segment would have earned had the Company not initiated the sale of its lease receivables. See this segments discussion under Revenue for additional information regarding this allocation entry in fiscal 2004. Impairment Charges and Other See Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding impairment charges and other. Special Items The following is a summary of the Companys special items: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (in millions) 2005 2004 2003 Restructuring costs $ 203.0 $ 37.1 $ 67.0 Merger related costs 48.9 44.7 74.4 Litigation settlements, net (42.3 ) (62.3 ) (101.5 ) Other 54.6 37.9 Total special items $ 264.2 $ 57.4 $ 39.9 See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detail of the Companys special items during fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003. 43 Table of Contents Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other increased $23.1 million during fiscal 2005 primarily from increased interest expense of $54.8 million due to increased borrowing levels and rates. The Company manages its exposure to interest rates using various hedging strategies (see Notes 3 and 7 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The $54.8 million increase in interest expense during fiscal 2005 was partially offset by the Company recording the minority interest impact of approximately $19.4 million for certain impairment charges within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments Oral Technologies business. These impairment charges were recorded within impairment charges and other on the consolidated statements of earnings during fiscal 2005. See Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding impairment charges and other. The increase in interest expense and other of $4.1 million during fiscal 2004 resulted primarily from the adverse year over year impact of foreign exchange rates and the impact of a gain recognized in fiscal 2003 related to a speculative interest rate swap transaction, which were partially offset by decreased interest expense. Provision for Income Taxes The provisions for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of changes in accounting were 35.8% of pretax earnings in fiscal 2005, 31.9% in fiscal 2004 and 33.6% in fiscal 2003. The effective tax rate for fiscal year 2005 includes tax expense related to a planned repatriation of foreign earnings as provided for in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the AJCA) (see the following paragraph). Generally, fluctuations in the effective tax rate are due to changes within state and foreign effective tax rates resulting from the Companys business mix and changes in the tax impact of special items, which may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item and the taxing jurisdiction. The Companys effective tax rate reflects tax benefits derived from increasing operations outside the United States, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. The Company has subsidiaries operating in Puerto Rico under a tax incentive agreement expiring in 2019, as well as a tax agreement in place with Thailand that expires in 2013. On October 22, 2004, the AJCA was signed into law. A provision of the AJCA creates a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed income earned abroad by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company determined that it will repatriate $500 million of accumulated foreign earnings in fiscal 2006 pursuant to the repatriation provisions of the AJCA, and accordingly has recorded a related tax liability of $26.3 million as of June 30, 2005. The $500 million is the maximum repatriation available to the Company under the repatriation provisions of the AJCA. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Earnings/(Loss) from Discontinued Operations See Note 22 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the Companys discontinued operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND SENSITIVE ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that can have a significant impact on the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and require use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing the Companys consolidated financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Allowance for doubtful accounts. Trade receivables are amounts owed to the Company through its operating activities and are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company also provides financing to various customers. Such financing arrangements range from one to ten years at interest rates that generally are subject to fluctuation. These financings may be collateralized, guaranteed by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivables are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and are included in other assets. Extending credit terms and calculating the required allowance for doubtful accounts involve the use of judgment by the Companys management. In determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, which includes general and specific reserves, the Company reviews accounts receivable agings, industry trends, customer financial strength, credit standing, historical write off trends and payment history to assess the probability of collection. The Company continuously monitors the collectibility of its receivable portfolio by analyzing the aging of its accounts receivable, assessing credit worthiness of its customers and evaluating the impact of changes in economic conditions that may impact credit risks. If the frequency or severity of customer defaults increases due to changes in customers financial condition or general economic conditions, the Companys allowance for uncollectible accounts may require adjustment. 44 Table of Contents The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of customer receivables was 2.9% and 3.3% at June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The decrease was a result of adjustments to certain trade receivable reserves due to changes in customer specific credit exposures, historical write off trends, and improvements in customer credit, billing and collections processes. A hypothetical 0.1% increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables to the fiscal 2005 reserve would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $4.4 million. The Company believes the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal year 2005 are appropriate and consistent with historical methodologies employed. The total reserve at June 30, 2005 and 2004 exceeds the total Company receivable balance greater than 60 days past due at those same dates. See Schedule II included in this Form 10 K which includes a rollforward of activity for these allowance reserves. Inventories. A substantial portion of inventories (approximately 67% in 2005 and 66% in 2004) are stated at the lower of cost, using the LIFO method, or market. These inventories are included within the core distribution facilities within the Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business and are primarily merchandise inventories. The remaining inventory is primarily stated at the lower of cost, using the first in, first out (FIFO) method, or market. If the Company had used the FIFO method of inventory valuation, which approximates current replacement cost, inventories would have increased $26.0 million and $57.8 million in fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. Below is a reconciliation of FIFO inventory to LIFO inventory: June 30, (in millions) 2005 2004 FIFO inventory $ 7,406.0 $ 7,529.1 LIFO reserve valuation (26.0 ) (57.8 ) Total inventory $ 7,380.0 $ 7,471.3 Inventories recorded on the Companys consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory. The Company reserves for inventory obsolescence using estimates based on historical experiences, sales trends, specific categories of inventory and age of on hand inventory. If actual conditions are less favorable than the Companys assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required, however these would not be expected to have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Goodwill. The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Under SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Accordingly, the Company does not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily customer relationships and patents and trademarks, continue to be amortized over their useful lives. In conducting the impairment test, the fair value of the Companys reporting units is compared to its carrying amount including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, further analysis is performed to assess impairment. The Companys impairment analysis is based on a review of the price/earnings ratio for publicly traded companies similar in nature, scope and size or a discounted cash flow analysis. The use of alternative estimates, peer groups or changes in the industry could affect the estimated fair value of the assets and potentially result in impairment. Any identified impairment would result in adjustment to the Companys results of operations. The Company performed its annual impairment tests in fiscal 2005 and 2004, neither of which resulted in the recognition of any impairment charges. See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill. Business Combinations. Assumptions and estimates are used in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of the Companys acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets which require management to use significant judgment in determining fair value. The Company typically utilizes third party valuation experts (Valuation Experts) for this process. In addition, current and future amortization expense for such intangibles is impacted by purchase price allocations as well as the assessment of estimated useful lives of such intangibles, excluding goodwill. The Company believes the assets recorded and the useful lives established are appropriate based upon current facts and circumstances. In conjunction with the review of a transaction, the Valuation Experts assess the status of the acquired companys research and development projects to determine the existence of in process research and development (IPRD). The Company has not historically recorded significant costs related to IPRD. However, in conjunction with the acquisition of Alaris, the Company was 45 Table of Contents required to estimate the fair value of acquired IPRD which required selecting an appropriate discount rate and estimating future cash flows for each project. Management also assessed the current status of development, nature and timing of efforts to complete such development, uncertainties and other factors when estimating the fair value. Costs were not assigned to IPRD unless future development was probable. Once the fair value was determined, an asset was established and, as required by GAAP immediately written off as a special item in the Companys consolidated statement of earnings. The Company recorded $12.7 million as a special item in fiscal 2004 representing an estimate of Alaris IPRD (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Special Items. The Companys special items consist primarily of costs that relate to the integration of previously acquired companies or costs of restructuring operations to improve productivity. Integration costs from acquisitions accounted for under the pooling of interests method have been recorded in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs incurred in a Restructuring), and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 100, Restructuring and Impairment Charges. Certain costs related to these acquisitions, such as employee and lease terminations and other facility exit costs, were recognized at the date the integration plan was adopted by management. Certain other integration costs that did not meet the criteria for accrual at the commitment date have been expensed as the integration plan has been implemented. The costs associated with integrating acquired companies under the purchase method are recorded in accordance with EITF Issue No. 95 3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination. Certain costs to be incurred by the Company, as the acquirer, such as employee and lease terminations and other facility exit costs, are recognized at the date the integration plan is committed to and adopted by management. Certain other integration costs that do not meet the criteria for accrual at the commitment date are expensed as the integration plan is implemented. At the beginning of the third quarter fiscal 2003, the Company implemented SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, to account for costs incurred in restructuring activities. Under this standard, a liability for most types of exit costs is recognized as incurred. As discussed above, the Company previously accounted for costs associated with restructuring activities under EITF Issue No. 94 3, which required the Company to recognize a liability for restructuring costs on the date of the commitment to an exit plan. The majority of the special items related to acquisitions and restructurings can be classified in one of the following categories: employee related costs, exit costs (including lease termination costs), asset impairments and other integration costs. Employee costs include severance and termination benefits. Lease termination costs include lease cancellation fees, forfeited deposits and remaining payments due under existing lease agreements less estimated sublease income. Other facility exit costs include costs to move equipment or inventory out of a facility as well as other costs incurred to shut down a facility. Asset impairment costs include the reduction in value of the Companys assets as a result of the integration or restructuring activities. Other integration costs primarily include charges directly related to the integration plan such as consulting costs related to information systems and employee benefit plans as well as relocation and travel costs directly associated with the integration plan. The Company also records settlements of significant lawsuits that are infrequent, non recurring or unusual in nature as special items. In addition, costs related to legal fees and document preservation and production costs incurred in connection with the SEC investigation and the Audit Committee internal review and related matters are also classified as special items. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Vendor Reserves. In determining an appropriate vendor reserve, the Company assesses historical experience and current outstanding claims. The Company researches and resolves contested transactions based on discussions with vendors, Company policy and findings of research performed. At any given time, there are outstanding items in various stages of research and resolution. The ultimate outcome of certain claims may be different than the Companys original estimate and may require adjustment. However, the Company believes reserves recorded for such disputes are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. Income Tax Reserves. The Company has established an estimated liability for federal, state and foreign income tax exposures that arise and meet the criteria for accrual under SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. This liability addresses a number of issues for which the Company may have to pay additional taxes (and interest) when all examinations by taxing authorities are concluded. The Company has developed a methodology for estimating its tax liability related to such matters and has consistently followed such methodology from period to period. The liability amounts for such matters are based on an evaluation of the underlying facts and circumstances, a thorough research of the technical merits of the Companys arguments, and an assessment of the probability of the Company prevailing in its arguments. In all cases, the Company considers previous findings of the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company generally consults with external tax advisers in reaching its 46 Table of Contents conclusions. Amounts accrued for a particular period are not adjusted upward or downward unless a significant change in facts or circumstances has occurred and been formally documented. Loss Contingencies. The Company accrues for contingencies related to litigation in accordance with SFAS No. 5, which requires the Company to assess contingencies to determine degree of probability and range of possible settlement. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in the Companys consolidated financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the settlement can be reasonably estimated. Assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. The Company regularly reviews contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of ultimate settlement may differ from these estimates. Self Insurance Accruals. The Company is self insured for employee medical and dental insurance programs. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $26.0 million and $23.0 million for estimated costs related to outstanding claims at June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, administrative fees and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. These estimates are based on the Companys assessment of outstanding claims, historical analysis and current payment trends. The Company records an estimate for the claims incurred but not reported using an estimated lag period. This lag period assumption has been consistently applied for the periods presented. If the lag period was hypothetically adjusted by a period equal to a half month, the impact on earnings would be $5.5 million. However, the Company believes the liabilities recorded are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. The Company has certain deductibles or is self insured for various claims including general liability, product, pharmacist professional, auto and workers compensation. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $66.4 million and $48.0 million for anticipated costs related to general liability and workers compensation at June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, defense costs and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. These estimates are based on the Companys assessment of outstanding claims, historical analysis, actuarial information and current payment trends. The amount of ultimate liability in respect to these matters may differ from these estimates. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Sources and Uses of Cash The following table summarizes the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003: (in millions) Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2005 2004 2003 Cash provided by/(used in): Operating activities $ 2,850.2 $ 2,624.7 $ 1,398.0 Investing activities ($877.4 ) ($2,437.0 ) ($343.7 ) Financing activities ($1,657.1 ) ($815.7 ) ($712.3 ) Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2005 totaled approximately $2.9 billion, an increase of $225.5 million when compared to fiscal 2004. The increase was primarily the result of net proceeds of $550 million during the year under the Companys committed receivables sales facility program. See Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding this program. Overall, the operating cash flow benefits were adversely affected by a $478.0 million decrease in earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting. A significant portion of the earnings decrease was due to non cash asset impairments of approximately $223.9 million. For further discussion of changes in the Companys earnings from continuing operations, see the Results of Operations section above. On June 27, 2005, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to $1.0 billion of its Common Shares as management deems appropriate and a dividend increase to $0.06 per share effective the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. Based on this rate, the Company expects fiscal 2006 dividends to total $0.24 per share, a doubling of the Companys previous annual dividend policy of $0.12 per share. However, all future dividends are subject to approval by the Companys Board of Directors. Cash provided by operating activities nearly doubled during fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 primarily due to an increase in accounts payable and increased earnings from continuing operations. The primary driver of the increase in accounts payable was the timing of payments at fiscal year end, as well as inventory buys executed shortly before fiscal year end within the Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business. In addition, as a result of certain non recurring end of year arrangements, payments to vendors in fiscal 2004 were reduced by $258 million due to the acceleration of payments at June 30, 2003 to selected pharmaceutical vendors. Such arrangements resulted in changes to the original payment terms with the vendors for which an 47 Table of Contents economic consideration was exchanged between the parties. The Companys overall investment in inventories declined during fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003 due primarily to the changing business model of the Pharmaceutical Distribution business (see the Overview section earlier within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). For further discussion of changes in the Companys earnings from continuing operations, see the Results of Operations section. Additionally, the Companys operating cash flow benefited by approximately $99.3 million during fiscal 2004 due to sales of lease receivables from the Companys Clinical Technologies and Services segment. See Note 10 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding sales of lease receivables. Investing activities. Cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003 primarily represents the Companys use of cash to complete acquisitions which expand its role as a provider of services to the health care industry (see Acquisitions and Divestitures within Part I, Item 1: Business for further information regarding the Companys acquisitions) and capital spending to develop and enhance the Companys infrastructure, including facilities, information systems and other machinery and equipment. During fiscal 2005, the majority of the cash used in investing activities related to capital spending and costs associated with the acquisition of Alaris and Geodax. The majority of the cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2004 was related to costs associated with the acquisitions of Alaris, Intercare and Medicap. During fiscal 2005, cash used in investing activities included approximately $99.8 million related to the purchase of investment securities available for sale. See Note 23 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the Companys investments. Cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2005 also includes cash proceeds of approximately $47.4 million which the Company received related to the sale of discontinued operations. See Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the Companys discontinued operations. Financing activities. The Companys financing activities utilized cash of $1,657.1 million, $815.7 million and $712.3 million during fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2005 primarily reflects the Companys decisions to retire its commercial paper and certain debt assumed in the Alaris acquisition and repurchase its Common Shares as authorized by its Board of Directors (see Share Repurchases below for additional information). During fiscal 2005, the Company utilized $500.3 million to repurchase its Common Shares. Cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2004 and 2003 primarily reflects the Companys decision to repurchase its shares as authorized by its Board of Directors. These cash outflows for fiscal 2004 and 2003 were partially offset by net proceeds received from the Companys debt facilities and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans. International Cash The Companys cash balance of approximately $1.4 billion as of June 30, 2005, includes $511.8 million of cash held by its subsidiaries outside of the United States. Although the vast majority of cash held outside the United States is available for repatriation, doing so subjects it to United States federal income tax. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company determined that it will repatriate $500 million of accumulated foreign earnings in fiscal 2006 pursuant to the repatriation provisions of the AJCA, and accordingly has recorded a related tax liability of $26.3 million as of June 30, 2005. The $500 million is the maximum repatriation available to the Company under the repatriation provisions of the AJCA. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Share Repurchases During fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, the Companys Board of Directors approved, and management completed, several share repurchase programs. The Company repurchased approximately $3.2 billion of the Companys shares, in the aggregate, through these share repurchase programs. During fiscal 2005, the Company repurchased approximately 8.8 million shares having an average price paid per share of $56.76. During fiscal 2004, the Company repurchased approximately 24.2 million shares having an average price paid per share of $62.03. During fiscal 2003, the Company repurchased approximately 19.6 million shares having an average price paid per share of $60.77. The repurchased shares were placed into treasury to be used for general corporate purposes. See Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities within Part I, Item 5: Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for further information regarding the Companys most recent share repurchase program. Capital Resources In addition to cash, the Companys sources of liquidity include a $1.5 billion commercial paper program backed by $1.5 billion of bank revolving credit facilities, a $150 million extendible commercial note program and a committed receivables sales facility program with capacity to sell $800 million in receivables. As of June 30, 2005, the Company did not have any outstanding borrowings from the commercial paper program. The Company also has other short term credit facilities of approximately $322.7 million, of which $136.0 million was outstanding as of June 30, 2005. For more information regarding the committed receivables sales facility program, see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company maintains two $750 million bank revolving credit facilities. These facilities are available for general corporate 48 Table of Contents purposes; however, they are primarily used as backstop liquidity for the Companys commercial paper program. During the first quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company borrowed $500 million on its revolving credit facilities. The proceeds of this borrowing were utilized to repay a portion of the Companys commercial paper and for general corporate purposes, including the establishment of pharmaceutical inventory at the Pharmaceutical Distribution business National Logistics Center in Groveport, Ohio. During the second quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company borrowed an additional $750 million on the revolving credit facilities, with the proceeds utilized primarily for the establishment of inventory at the National Logistics Center. The Company fully repaid the $1.25 billion in outstanding balances under its bank revolving credit facilities during the second quarter of fiscal 2005 due to stabilization in its short term liquidity requirements in light of, among other things, the Company having substantially completed the initial establishment of inventory at the National Logistics Center. During fiscal 2005, the Company retired $300 million in 4.45% Notes which matured in 2005. Also during fiscal 2005, the Company paid off $183.6 million of the $195.3 million Senior subordinated notes due 2011 assumed as part of the Companys acquisition of Alaris in fiscal 2004. The Company also amended the bond indenture to remove the restrictive covenants. The remaining balance at June 30, 2005 of $11.6 million is callable at any time on or after July 1, 2007. Also related to the Alaris acquisition, the Company acquired a bank credit facility consisting of a six year $245 million term loan and a five year $30 million revolving credit facility. At June 30, 2004, $162.6 million was outstanding under the term loan. During fiscal 2005, the Company paid off the $162.6 million balance under the term loan and terminated the credit facility. During fiscal 2004, the Company retired two series of $100 million Notes which matured in 2004. During fiscal 2001, the Company entered into an agreement to periodically sell trade receivables to a special purpose accounts receivable and financing entity (the Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity), which is exclusively engaged in purchasing trade receivables from, and making loans to, the Company. The Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity, which is consolidated by the Company as it is the primary beneficiary of the variable interest entity, issued $250 million and $400 million in preferred variable debt securities to parties not affiliated with the Company during fiscal 2004 and 2001, respectively. These preferred debt securities are classified as long term debt in the Companys consolidated balance sheet. These preferred debt securities must be retired or redeemed by the Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity before the Company, or its creditors, can have access to the Accounts Receivable and Financing Entitys receivables. From time to time, the Company considers and engages in acquisition transactions in order to expand its role as a leading provider of services to the health care industry. The Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and intends to take advantage of opportunities to expand its role as a provider of services to the health care industry through all its reporting segments. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, the Company may need to enter into funding arrangements for such mergers or acquisitions. The Company currently believes that, based upon existing cash, operating cash flows, available capital resources (as discussed above) and other available market transactions, it has adequate capital resources at its disposal to fund currently anticipated capital expenditures, business growth and expansion, contractual obligations and current and projected debt service requirements, including those related to business combinations. Debt Ratings/Covenants The Companys senior debt credit ratings from SP, Moodys and Fitch are BBB, Baa3 and BBB, respectively, the commercial paper ratings are A 3, P 3 and F2, respectively, and the ratings outlooks are negative, stable and negative, respectively. Although a ratings downgrade by any of the rating agencies will not trigger an acceleration of any of the Companys indebtedness, further reductions in the Companys credit ratings could negatively impact its ability to access capital as well as its ability to issue additional debt securities at currently available interest rates. The Companys various borrowing facilities and long term debt, except for the preferred debt securities as discussed below, are free of any financial covenants other than minimum net worth which cannot fall below $4.1 billion at any time. As of June 30, 2005, the Company was in compliance with this covenant. The Companys preferred debt securities contain a minimum adjusted tangible net worth covenant (adjusted tangible net worth cannot fall below $3.0 billion) and certain financial ratio covenants. As of June 30, 2005, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants would be followed by a grace period during which the Company may discuss remedies with the security holders, or extinguish the securities, without causing an event of default. Interest Rate and Currency Risk Management The Company uses forward currency exchange contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to cash flow variability. The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to protect the value of its 49 Table of Contents existing foreign currency assets and liabilities and the value of its debt. See Notes 3 and 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives, including foreign currency hedging instruments. As a matter of policy, the Company rarely engages in speculative transactions involving derivative financial instruments. During fiscal 2003, the Company entered into one speculative interest rate swap transaction resulting in a gain of approximately $6.7 million. This gain was recorded in interest expense and other in the consolidated statement of earnings. Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2005, the Companys contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Total On Balance Sheet: Long term debt (1) $ 429.1 $ 364.4 $ 963.7 $ 1,676.0 $ 3,433.2 Capital lease obligations (2) 13.2 21.1 99.5 10.8 144.6 Other long term liabilities (3) 13.3 20.8 13.4 78.6 126.1 Off Balance Sheet: Operating leases (4) 99.9 137.6 131.2 302.9 671.6 Purchase obligations (5) 1,870.8 102.7 27.0 11.1 2,011.6 Total financial obligations $ 2,426.3 $ 646.6 $ 1,234.8 $ 2,079.4 $ 6,387.1 (1) Represents maturities of the Companys long term debt obligations excluding capital lease obligations described below. See Note 6 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (2) Represents maturities of the Companys capital lease obligations, included within long term debt on the Companys balance sheet and the related estimated future interest payments. (3) Represents cash outflows by period for certain of the Companys long term liabilities in which cash outflows could be reasonably estimated. The primary items included are estimates of the Companys pension and other post retirement benefit obligations as well as accrued marketing fees and other long term liabilities. Certain long term liabilities, such as deferred taxes, have been excluded from the table above as there are no cash outflows associated with the liabilities or the timing of the cash outflows cannot reasonably be estimated. (4) Represents minimum rental payments and the related estimated future interest payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms as described in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (5) Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and specifying all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which the Company is obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally cancelled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from the Companys total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. The significant amount disclosed within fiscal 2006, as compared to other periods, primarily represents obligations to purchase inventories within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS See Note 10 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of off balance sheet arrangements. OTHER Recent Financial Accounting Standards. See Note 3 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards. Recent Developments. In late August 2005, Hurricane Katrina devastated parts of Louisiana, Mississippi and the Gulf Coast of the United States. The Company sustained limited damage to its facilities in the region and at the time of the filing of this Form 10 K, all major facilities in the region were operational. The damage sustained to the Companys facilities will not materially impact its financial condition or results of operations. The Company has made monetary and product donations to the hurricane relief efforts which will not have a material impact on its financial condition or results of operations. See Note 24 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of additional subsequent events after June 30, 2005. 50 Table of Contents Item 7a: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The Company is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations as a result of certain market risks. These market risks primarily relate to foreign exchange, interest rate, and commodity related changes. The Company maintains a comprehensive hedging program to manage volatility related to these market exposures. It employs operational, economic, and derivative financial instruments in order to mitigate risk. See Notes 3 and 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Companys use of derivative instruments. Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity. By nature of the Companys global operations, it is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations resulting from foreign exchange rate variation. These exposures are transactional and translational in nature. Since the Company manufactures and sells its products throughout the world, its foreign currency risk is diversified. Principal drivers of this diversified foreign exchange exposure include the European euro, Mexican peso, British pound, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Thai bhat. Transactional Exposure The Companys transactional exposure arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than the functional currency of the parent or its subsidiaries. As part of its risk management program, at the end of each fiscal year the Company performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted transactional exposure for the upcoming fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening of the U.S dollar. Included in the analysis is the estimated impact of its hedging program, which mitigates the Companys transactional exposure. At June 30, 2005 and 2004, the Company had hedged approximately 52% of its transactional exposures. The following table summarizes the analysis as it relates to the Companys transactional exposure: (in millions) 2005 2004 Net estimated transactional exposure $ 324.5 $ 332.8 Sensitivity gain/loss (1) 32.5 33.3 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (16.8 ) (17.2 ) Estimated net gain/loss $ 15.7 $ 16.1 (1) Impact of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening of the U.S dollar. Translational Exposure The Company also has exposure related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign divisions into U.S dollars, the functional currency of the parent. It performs a similar analysis as described above related to this translational exposure. The Company does not typically hedge any of its translational exposure and no hedging impact was included in the Companys analysis at June 30, 2005 and 2004. The following table summarizes the Companys translational exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening in the U.S dollar: (in millions) 2005 2004 Net estimated translational exposure $ 187.7 $ 208.3 Sensitivity gain/loss (1) $ 18.8 $ 20.8 (1) Impact of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening of the U.S dollar. Interest Rate Sensitivity. The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing and investing activities to maintain liquidity and fund business operations. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions and other factors. The Companys policy is to manage exposures to interest rates using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt as deemed appropriate by management. The Company utilizes interest rate swap instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate movements. As part of its risk management program, the Company annually performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted exposure to interest rates for the following fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. At June 30, 2005 and 2004, the potential increase or decrease in interest expense under this analysis as a result of this hypothetical change was $4.6 million and $6.4 million, respectively. 51 Table of Contents Commodity Price Sensitivity. The Company purchases certain commodities for use in its manufacturing processes, which include rubber, heating oil, diesel fuel and polystyrene. The Company typically purchases these commodities at market prices, and as a result, is affected by price fluctuations. As part of its risk management program, the Company performs sensitivity analysis on its forecasted commodity exposure for the following fiscal year. At June 30, 2005 and 2004, the Company had not hedged any of these exposures. The table below summarizes the Companys analysis of these forecasted commodity exposures and a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices as of June 30, 2005 and 2004: (in millions) 2005 2004 Estimated commodity exposure $ 25.8 $ 32.4 Sensitivity gain/loss (1) $ 2.6 $ 3.2 (1) Impact of a hypothetical 10% change in commodity market prices. The Company also has exposure to certain energy related commodities, including natural gas and electricity through its normal course of business. These exposures result primarily from operating the Companys distribution, manufacturing, and corporate facilities. In certain deregulated markets, the Company from time to time enters into long term purchase contracts to supply these items at a specific price. 
 
