Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K as well as other portions of this Form 10 K. The words believe, expect, anticipate, project and similar expressions, among others, generally identify forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statements were made. Forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. The most significant of these risks, uncertainties and other factors are described in this Form 10 K (including in Item 1A Risk Factors) and in Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 10 K. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. PART I Item 1: Business General Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation formed in 1979, is a holding company that owns operating subsidiaries conducting business as Cardinal Health. The Company is a leading provider of products and services supporting the healthcare industry, and helping healthcare providers and manufacturers improve the productivity and safety of healthcare. As used in this report, the terms the Registrant, the Company and Cardinal Health refer to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. Except as otherwise specified, information in this report is provided as of June 30, 2006 (the end of the Companys fiscal year). The description of the Companys business should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and supplementary data included in this Form 10 K. Reportable Segments As of and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, the Company reported financial information for four reportable segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services; Medical Products and Services; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services; and Clinical Technologies and Services. As discussed below under Fiscal 2007 Changes to Reportable Segments, the Company will change its reportable segments beginning with the first quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2007. The following business discussion is based on the four reportable segments as they were structured as of and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services Through its Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment, the Company distributes a broad line of pharmaceutical and other healthcare products. The Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business is one of the countrys leading full service wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical and related healthcare products to retail customers (including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers), hospitals and alternate care providers (including mail order customers) located throughout the United States. The Pharmaceutical Distribution business provides its customers with weekly next day delivery and emergency 24 hour service. As a full service wholesale distributor, the Pharmaceutical Distribution business complements its distribution activities by offering a broad range of support services to assist its customers in maintaining and helping to improve the efficiency and quality of their services. These support services include: online procurement, fulfillment and information provided through cardinalhealth.com; 1 Table of Contents computerized order entry and order confirmation systems; generic sourcing programs; product movement, inventory and management reports; and consultation on store operations and merchandising. The Companys proprietary software systems feature customized databases specially designed to help its distribution customers order more efficiently, contain costs and monitor their purchases. Through this segment, the Company also provides services to branded pharmaceutical manufacturers in connection with distribution service agreements. These services include distribution services, inventory management services, data/reporting services, new product launch support and contract and chargeback administration services. Through this segment, the Company also operates a pharmaceutical repackaging and distribution program for chain and independent drug store customers as well as mail order customers. In addition, through this segment, the Company is a franchisor of apothecary style retail pharmacies through its Medicine Shoppe International, Inc. (Medicine Shoppe) and Medicap Pharmacies Incorporated (Medicap) franchise systems. Medical Products and Services Through its Medical Products and Services segment, the Company provides medical products and services to hospitals and other healthcare providers. The Company distributes a broad range of medical and laboratory products, representing approximately 2,000 suppliers in addition to its own line of surgical and respiratory therapy products to hospitals and other healthcare providers. Through this segment, the Company also manufactures sterile and non sterile procedure kits, single use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel, exam and surgical gloves, fluid suction and collection systems, respiratory therapy products, surgical instruments, special procedure products and other products. In addition, through this segment, the Company assists its customers in reducing costs while helping to improve the quality of patient care in a variety of ways, including online procurement, fulfillment and information provided through cardinalhealth.com, supply chain management and instrument repair. It also distributes therapeutic plasma to hospitals, clinics and other providers. Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services Through its Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, the Company provides a broad range of technologies and services through facilities located in North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific to the pharmaceutical, life sciences and consumer health industries. This segments Oral Technologies business provides proprietary drug delivery technologies, including softgel capsules, controlled release forms and Zydis&reg; fast dissolving wafers, and manufacturing for nearly all traditional oral dosage forms. The Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business provides advanced aseptic blow/fill/seal technology, drug lyophilization and manufacturing for nearly all sterile dose forms, such as vials and prefilled syringes, as well as biologic development and regulatory consulting services. The Packaging Services business provides pharmaceutical packaging services, folding cartons, inserts and labels, with proprietary expertise in child resistant and unit dose/compliance package design. The Pharmaceutical Development business provides drug discovery, development and analytical science services. The Nuclear Pharmacy Services business operates centralized nuclear pharmacies that prepare and deliver radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging and other procedures in hospitals and clinics. Through this segment, the Company also manufactures and markets generic pharmaceutical products for sale to hospitals, clinics and pharmacies in the United Kingdom and offers product logistics management. 2 Table of Contents Clinical Technologies and Services Through its Clinical Technologies and Services segment, the Company provides products and services to hospitals and other healthcare providers. Through its Alaris products business, this segment designs, develops and markets intravenous medication safety and infusion therapy delivery systems, software applications, needle free disposables and related patient monitoring equipment. Through its Pyxis products business, this segment develops, manufactures, leases, sells and services point of use systems that automate the distribution and management of medications and supplies in hospitals and other healthcare facilities. In addition, through its clinical services and consulting businesses, this segment provides services to the healthcare industry through integrated pharmacy services and the gathering and recording of clinical information for review, analysis and interpretation. For information on comparative segment revenue, profits and related financial information, see Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Fiscal 2007 Changes to Reportable Segments Effective for the first quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2007, the Company will report financial information for the following five reportable segments: Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical. The Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment encompasses the businesses formerly within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment, the Nuclear Pharmacy Services and product logistics management businesses formerly within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment and the therapeutic plasma distribution capabilities formerly within the Medical Products and Services segment. Supply Chain Services Medical. The Supply Chain Services Medical segment encompasses the Companys Medical Products Distribution business and the assembly of sterile and non sterile procedure kits formerly within the Medical Products and Services segment. Medical Products Manufacturing. The Medical Products Manufacturing segment encompasses the medical and surgical manufacturing businesses formerly within the Medical Products and Services segment. Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment encompasses all of the businesses formerly within this segment with the exception of the Nuclear Pharmacy Services and product logistics management businesses, which will be part of the Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. Clinical Technologies and Services. There are no changes to the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. The five segments align within two major businesses: Supply Chain Services, which is focused on the Companys foundational logistics and distribution capabilities, and Pharmaceutical & Medical Products, which is focused on higher margin, fast growing manufacturing businesses. The Company intends to focus on gaining scale and efficiencies and delivering superior customer services in Supply Chain Services. In Pharmaceutical & Medical Products, the Company will be investing in customer driven innovation and operational excellence. Available Information The Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K as well as its Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q and Current Reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are made available free of charge on the Companys website (www.cardinalhealth.com, under the Investors SEC filings captions) after the Company 3 Table of Contents electronically files these materials with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). SEC filings by the Companys officers and directors reporting transactions and holdings in Company shares are also made available on the Companys website, as are proxy statements for the Companys shareholder meetings. These filings also may be read and copied at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including the Company. Information relating to corporate governance at Cardinal Health, including the Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines and its Standards of Business Conduct, which applies to all employees, including the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions, and to all directors, is available on the Companys website (www.cardinalhealth.com, under the Investors caption). Information about the Companys Board of Directors and Board Committees, including Committee charters, also is available on the Companys website (www.cardinalhealth.com, under the Investors caption). This information also is available in print (free of charge) to any shareholder who requests it from the Companys Investor Relations department. Acquisitions and Divestitures Acquisitions. Since July 1, 2001, the Company has completed the following business combinations: Date Company Location Line of Business Consideration Paid (amounts in millions) Shares Stock OptionsConverted (1) Cash 4/15/2002 Magellan Laboratories, Inc. Research Triangle Park, North Carolina Pharmaceutical contract development organization providing analytical and development services to pharmaceutical and biotechnological industries $ 221 (2) 6/26/2002 Boron, LePore & Associates, Inc. Wayne, New Jersey Full service provider of strategic medical education solutions to the healthcare industry 1.0 $ 189 1/1/2003 Syncor International Corporation Woodland Hills, California Leading provider of nuclear pharmacy services 12.5 (3) 3.0 12/16/2003 The Intercare Group, plc United Kingdom Contract services manufacturer and distributor for pharmaceutical companies $ 570 (4) 6/28/2004 ALARIS Medical Systems, Inc. San Diego, California Provider of intravenous medication safety products and services 0.6 $ 2,080 (5) 4 Table of Contents (1) As a result of the acquisition, the outstanding stock options of the acquired company were converted into options to purchase the Companys Common Shares. This column represents the number of the Companys Common Shares subject to such converted stock options immediately following conversion. (2) Purchase price is before consideration of any tax benefits associated with the transaction. (3) Includes the assumption of approximately $120 million in debt. (4) Includes the assumption of approximately $150 million in debt. (5) Includes the assumption of approximately $358 million in debt. In addition, the Company has completed a number of smaller acquisitions (asset purchases, stock purchases and mergers) during the last five fiscal years, including acquisitions of Medicap, Snowden Pencer Holdings, Inc. and Geodax Technology, Inc (Geodax). During fiscal 2006, the Company acquired ParMed Pharmaceutical, Inc. (ParMed), a generic telemarketing business, Denver Biomedical, Inc. (Denver Biomedical), which develops and manufactures medical devices for acute care cancer hospitals and oncology offices, and the wholesale pharmaceutical, health and beauty and related drugstore products distribution business of The F. Dohmen Co. and certain of its subsidiaries (Dohmen). The Company also acquired the remaining shares of the Source Medical Corporation Canadian joint venture (the Source Medical joint venture) during fiscal 2006. Divestitures. The Company has divested the international and non core domestic businesses of Syncor International Corporation (Syncor) since acquiring Syncor in fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2006, the Company also divested a significant portion of the Specialty Distribution business formerly within its Medical Products and Services segment. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company committed to plans to sell a significant portion of the Healthcare Marketing Services business within its Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment and the United Kingdom based Intercare Pharmaceutical Distribution business within its Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment, thereby meeting the held for sale criteria set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. These businesses have been reclassified to discontinued operations. Part of the Healthcare Marketing Services business being sold was acquired in the Boron, LePore & Associates, Inc. transaction described in the table above. The Intercare Pharmaceutical Distribution business was acquired in the The Intercare Group, plc (Intercare) transaction described in the table above. The Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its operations and services across all reportable segments from time to time as appropriate. These acquisitions may involve the use of cash, stock or other securities as well as the assumption of indebtedness and liabilities. In addition, the Company evaluates its portfolio of businesses from time to time as appropriate to identify any businesses for possible divestiture. For additional information concerning certain of the transactions described above, see Notes 2, 16 and 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Customers The Companys largest customers, CVS Corporation (CVS) and Walgreen Co. (Walgreens), accounted for approximately 21% and 14%, respectively, of the Companys revenue (by dollar volume) for fiscal 2006. The aggregate of the Companys five largest customers, including CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 46% of the Companys revenue (by dollar volume) for fiscal 2006. All of the Companys business with its five largest customers is included in its Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment. The loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Businesses in each of the Companys reportable segments have agreements with group purchasing organizations (GPOs) that act as purchasing agents that negotiate vendor contracts on behalf of their members. Approximately 15% of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2006 was derived from GPO members through the 5 Table of Contents contractual arrangements established with Novation, LLC (Novation) and Premier Purchasing Partners, L.P. (Premier), the Companys two largest GPO relationships in terms of member revenue. Generally, compliance by GPO members with GPO vendor selections is voluntary. As such, the Company believes the loss of any of the Companys agreements with a GPO would not mean the loss of sales to all members of the GPO, although the loss of such an agreement could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. See Note 12 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Companys concentrations of credit risk and major customers. Suppliers Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services The Company obtains its products from many different suppliers, the largest of which, Pfizer Inc., accounted for approximately 9% (by dollar volume) of the Companys revenue in fiscal 2006. The Companys five largest suppliers accounted on a combined basis for approximately 33% (by dollar volume) of the Companys revenue during fiscal 2006. Overall, the Company believes that its relationships with its suppliers are good. The loss of certain suppliers could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition if alternative sources of supply were unavailable at reasonable rates. The Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business began a business model transition in fiscal 2003 regarding the manner in which it was compensated for the services that it provides to branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. Historically, Pharmaceutical Distribution was compensated by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers in the form of price inflation. Specifically, a significant portion of the compensation Pharmaceutical Distribution received from such manufacturers was derived from the Companys ability to purchase pharmaceutical inventory in advance of price increases, hold that inventory as manufacturers increased prices, and generate a higher gross margin on the subsequent sale of that inventory. Beginning in fiscal 2003, branded pharmaceutical manufacturers began to seek greater control over the amount of product available in the supply chain and, as a result, began to change their sales practices by restricting the volume of product available for purchase by wholesalers. In addition, manufacturers sought additional services from the Company, including providing data concerning product sales and distribution patterns. The Company believes that manufacturers sought these changes to provide them with greater visibility over product demand and movement in the market and to increase product safety and integrity by reducing the risks associated with product being available to, and distributed in, the secondary market. These changes significantly reduced the compensation (as a percentage of revenue) received by the Company from branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. In response to these developments, the Company established a compensation system with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers that is significantly less dependent on manufacturers pricing practices, and is based on the services provided by the Company to meet the unique distribution requirements of each manufacturers products. During fiscal 2005, the Company worked with individual branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to define fee for service terms that compensate the Company based on the services being provided to such manufacturers. This transition was completed during fiscal 2006. These new arrangements have moderated the seasonality of earnings which have historically reflected the pattern of manufacturers price increases. Under the fee for service arrangements, reflected in written distribution service agreements, the Companys compensation for these services may be a fee or a fee plus an inflation based compensation component. In certain instances, the Company must achieve certain performance criteria to receive the maximum fees under the agreement. The fee is typically a fixed percentage of the Companys purchases or the Companys sales of the manufacturers products to customers. Apart from its fee for service arrangements reflected in distribution service agreements, the Company also continues to be compensated by some branded manufacturers based solely on price inflation. If the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price inflation slows, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents The distribution service agreements between the Company and certain branded pharmaceutical manufacturers generally range from a one year term with an automatic renewal feature to a five year term. These agreements generally cannot be terminated unless mutually agreed to by the parties, a breach of the agreement occurs that is not cured, or in the event of a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate without cause within a defined notice period. Medical Products and Services, Pharmaceutical Technology and Services and Clinical Technologies and Services The Medical Products and Services and Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments use a broad range of raw materials, compounds and purchased components in the products they manufacture, including latex, resins, gelatin and pharmaceutical ingredients, among others. The Clinical Technologies and Services segment uses purchased components in the products that it manufactures, including custom designed components and assemblies. In certain circumstances, the Companys results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by cost increases because the Company may not be able to fully recover the increased costs from the customer or offset the increased cost through productivity improvements. In addition, although most of these raw materials or components are generally available, certain raw materials or components used by the Companys manufacturing businesses may be available only from a limited number of suppliers. There also may be cases where a particular raw material may be available from another supplier or several other suppliers, but the Company is constrained to use a particular supplier due to customer requirements, regulatory filings or product approvals. In either case, where there are a limited number of suppliers, the Company may experience shortages in supply, and as a result, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Companys Medical Products and Services segment, at times, purchases medical/surgical and laboratory products from vendors other than the original manufacturer of such products. Certain manufacturers have adopted policies limiting the ability of the segments businesses to purchase products from anyone other than the manufacturer. If this practice becomes more widespread, the ability of the Medical Products and Services segment to purchase products from other distributors, as well as its ability to sell excess inventories to other distributors, may be impaired. This could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Competition The Company operates in markets that are highly competitive. Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services In the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment, the Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business competes directly with two other national wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) and a number of smaller regional wholesale distributors, self warehousing chains, direct selling manufacturers, specialty distributors and third party logistics companies on the basis of a value proposition that includes pricing, breadth of product lines, service offerings and support services. The Pharmaceutical Distribution business has narrow profit margins and, accordingly, the Companys earnings depend significantly on its ability to: compete effectively on the pricing of pharmaceutical products; distribute a large volume and variety of products efficiently; provide quality support services; enter into and maintain satisfactory arrangements with branded and generic pharmaceutical manufacturers so it is compensated for the services it provides manufacturers; and 7 Table of Contents effectively manage inventory and other working capital items. With respect to pharmacy franchising operations, a few smaller franchisors compete with Medicine Shoppe and Medicap in the franchising of pharmacies, with competition being based primarily upon financial assistance offered to qualified franchisees, aggregation of purchase volume, operational support and assistance, benefits offered to both the pharmacist and the customer, access to third party programs, brand awareness and marketing support and pricing. Medicine Shoppe and Medicap also need to be competitive with a pharmacists ongoing options to operate an independent pharmacy or work for a chain pharmacy. Medical Products and Services The Companys Medical Products and Services segment competes both domestically and internationally. Competitive factors within medical surgical supply distribution include price, breadth of product offerings, product availability, order filling accuracy (both invoicing and product selection) and service offerings. Within its distribution business, this segment competes across several customer classes with many different distributors, including Owens & Minor, Inc., Fisher Scientific International, Inc., Henry Schein, Inc. and Physician Sales & Service, Inc., among others. Competitive factors within medical surgical product manufacturing include product innovation, performance, quality, price and brand recognition. This segment competes against several product manufacturers, including Kimberly Clark Corporation, Tyco International Ltd., Teleflex Incorporated, M&ouml;lnlycke Health Care, Medline Industries, Inc., Ansell Limited and 3M Company, among others. Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services In the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, the Company competes on several fronts both domestically and internationally, including competing with other companies that provide outsourcing services to pharmaceutical manufacturers based in North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific and competing with those pharmaceutical manufacturers that choose to perform these services themselves. Specifically, in this segment, the Company competes with: providers of oral solid dose manufacturing, including those offering new drug delivery technologies and existing delivery technologies; providers of sterile fill/finish manufacturing and lyophilization services; providers of contract discovery, development, analytical laboratory and regulatory consulting services and manufacturing and packaging of clinical supplies; companies that provide packaging components and packaging services; providers of product logistics services; and nuclear pharmacy companies and distributors engaged in the preparation and delivery of radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging procedures in hospitals and clinics, including numerous operators of radiopharmacies, numerous independent radiopharmacies and manufacturers and universities that have established their own radiopharmacies. The Company competes in this segment based upon a variety of factors, including quality, customer service, price, proprietary technologies or capabilities and responsiveness. Clinical Technologies and Services In the Clinical Technologies and Services segment, the Alaris products business competes based upon quality, technological innovation, price, the value proposition of helping improve patient outcomes while reducing overall costs associated with medication safety and patents and other intellectual property. Alaris competitors include both domestic and foreign companies, including Baxter International, Inc., Hospira, Inc., Fresenius AG and B. Braun Medical, Inc. 8 Table of Contents The Pyxis products business competes based upon quality, relationships with customers, price, customer service and support capabilities, patents and other intellectual property and its ability to interface with customer information systems. Actual and potential competitors for Pyxis include both existing domestic and foreign companies, including McKesson Corporation and Omnicell, Inc., as well as emerging companies that supply products for specialized markets and other outside service providers. With respect to its clinical services and consulting businesses, the Company competes with both national and regional hospital pharmacy management firms and self managed hospitals and hospital systems on the basis of services offered, the quality of the services it provides to its customers, price, its established base of existing operations, the effective use of information systems and the development of clinical programs. Employees As of August 31, 2006, the Company had more than 55,000 employees in the U.S. and abroad, of which 923 are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Overall, the Company considers its employee relations to be good. Intellectual Property The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect its products, services and intangible assets. These proprietary rights are important to the Companys ongoing operations. The Company operates under licenses for certain proprietary technology and in certain instances licenses its technology to third parties. The Company has applied in the United States and certain foreign countries for registration of a number of trademarks and service marks, some of which have been registered, and also holds common law rights in various trademarks and service marks. It is possible that in some cases the Company may be unable to obtain the registrations for trademarks and service marks for which it has applied. Through its Clinical Technologies and Services segment, the Company holds patents relating to certain aspects of its automated pharmaceutical dispensing systems, automated medication management systems, medical devices, infusion therapy systems, infusion administration sets and drug delivery systems. Through its Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, the Company holds patents and license rights relating to certain aspects of its medication packaging, formulations, nutritional and pharmaceutical dosage forms, topical products, mammalian cell engineering and sterile manufacturing. Through its Medical Products and Services segment, the Company holds patents relating to certain aspects of its medical and surgical products and devices, including surgical and exam gloves, drapes, gowns, respiratory therapy devices, patient prep products and surgical instruments. The Company also holds patents relating to certain processes and products across all segments. The Company has a number of pending patent applications in the United States and certain foreign countries, and intends to pursue additional patents as appropriate. The Company has enforced and will continue to enforce its intellectual property rights in the United States and worldwide. The Company does not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to its overall business. Regulatory Matters Certain of the Companys subsidiaries may be required to register for permits and or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (the DEA), the Food and Drug Administration (the FDA), the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the NRC), the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and or comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies, and certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale. These subsidiaries include those that: distribute and or engage in logistics services for prescription pharmaceuticals (including certain controlled substances) and or medical devices; 9 Table of Contents manage or own pharmacy operations; engage in or operate retail pharmacies or nuclear pharmacies; purchase pharmaceuticals; develop, manufacture or package pharmaceutical products and medical devices, including providing outsourced pharmaceutical manufacturing services; market pharmaceutical products; and provide consulting services and solutions that assist healthcare institutions and pharmacies in their operations as well as pharmaceutical manufacturers with regard to regulatory submissions and filings made to healthcare agencies such as the FDA. In addition, certain of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to requirements of the Controlled Substances Act and the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987 and similar state laws, which regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution of prescription drugs and prescription drug samples under prescribed minimum standards. Certain of the Companys subsidiaries that manufacture medical devices are subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended by the Medical Device Amendments of 1976, the Safe Medical Device Act of 1990, as amended in 1992, the FDA Modernization Act of 1997, the Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act of 2002, and comparable foreign regulations. In addition, certain of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act. Laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of products also exist in most other countries where the Companys subsidiaries conduct business. In addition, the international manufacturing operations within the Companys Medical Products and Services, Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services and Clinical Technologies and Services segments are subject to local certification requirements, including compliance with domestic and or foreign good manufacturing practices and quality system regulations established by the FDA and or applicable foreign regulatory authorities. The Companys franchising operations, through Medicine Shoppe and Medicap, are subject to Federal Trade Commission regulations, and rules and regulations adopted by certain states, which require franchisors to make certain disclosures to prospective franchisees prior to the sale of franchises. In addition, many states have adopted laws which regulate the franchisor franchisee relationship. The most common provisions of such laws establish restrictions on the ability of franchisors to terminate or refuse to renew franchise agreements. From time to time, similar legislation has been proposed or is pending in additional states. The Companys Nuclear Pharmacy Services business operates nuclear pharmacies, imaging centers and related businesses such as cyclotron facilities used to produce positron emission tomography (PET) products used in medical imaging. This business operates in a regulated industry which requires licenses or permits from the NRC, the radiologic health agency and or department of health of each state in which it operates and the applicable state board of pharmacy. In addition, the FDA is also involved in the regulation of cyclotron facilities where PET products are produced. As further discussed below, certain of the Companys businesses are subject to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. Certain of the Companys subsidiaries also maintain contracts with the federal government and are subject to certain regulatory requirements relating to government contractors. Services and products provided by certain of the Companys businesses involve access to healthcare information gathered and assessed for the benefit of healthcare clients. Greater scrutiny on a federal and state level is being placed on how patient identifiable healthcare information should be handled and in identifying the appropriate parties and the means to do so. Changes in regulations and or legislation such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and its accompanying federal regulations, such as those 10 Table of Contents pertaining to privacy and security, may affect how some of these information services or products are provided. In addition, certain of the Companys operations, depending upon their location, may be subject to additional state or foreign regulations affecting personal data protection and how information services or products are provided. Failure to comply with HIPAA and other such laws may subject the Company and or its subsidiaries to civil and or criminal penalties, which could be significant. The Company is also subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations, both in the United States and abroad, relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use, transportation and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, U.S. and international import and export laws and regulations require the Company to abide by certain standards relating to the importation and exportation of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. The Company is also subject to certain laws and regulations concerning the conduct of its foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of the Companys internal books and records. The Companys operations are affected by federal, state and or local environmental laws. The Company has compliance programs in place designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements. The Company has made, and intends to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental laws. As a result of its acquisition of Allegiance Corporation, the Company is participating in cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites (see Item 3 Legal Proceedings). There have been increasing efforts by various levels of government, including state departments of health, state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies, to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. Certain states, such as Florida, have already adopted laws and regulations, including pedigree tracking requirements, that are intended to protect the integrity of the pharmaceutical distribution system. Regulations adopted under the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act, which will be effective December 1, 2006, will also require the passage of pedigree information in defined circumstances. Other states and government agencies are currently considering similar laws and regulations. These laws and regulations could increase the overall regulatory burden and costs associated with the Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business, and could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company continues to work with its suppliers to help minimize the risks associated with counterfeit products in the supply chain. The Company is subject to extensive local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government continues to scrutinize potentially fraudulent practices in the healthcare industry in an attempt to minimize the cost that such practices have on Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Many of these laws and regulations are complex and broadly written and could be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require the Company to make changes in its operations. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or its ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. New federal legislation was enacted on February 8, 2006 that, among other things, changes the prescription drug reimbursement formula and related reporting requirements for generic pharmaceuticals under Medicaid to reduce costs for that program. Under this new legislation, the major changes with respect to generic pharmaceuticals are expected to become effective in 2007. Various administrative agencies are in the process of defining the specific details of the legislation. The Company is continuing to work with its customers and the regulatory agencies in this process. The Company is currently developing plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative changes. If the Company fails to successfully develop and implement such plans, this change in reimbursement formula and related reporting requirements and other provisions of this new legislation could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents The costs associated with complying with the various applicable federal regulations, as well as state and foreign regulations, could be significant and the failure to comply with all such legal requirements could have an adverse affect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Inventories In connection with the business model transition discussed under Suppliers above, the Pharmaceutical Distribution business days of inventory on hand are significantly lower than historical levels as a result of reduced investment buying opportunities and lower inventory levels negotiated with pharmaceutical manufacturers. The Company had historically maintained higher levels of inventory in its Pharmaceutical Distribution business in order to take advantage of price changes as partial compensation for its services. The business is generally not required by its customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as may be required to meet service level requirements. Certain supply contracts with U.S. Government entities require the Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution and Medical Products Distribution businesses to maintain sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands. The Company does not believe that the requirements contained in these U.S. Government supply contracts materially impact inventory levels. The Companys customer return policy requires that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees, and only allows customers to return products that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit. The Companys practice is to offer market payment terms to its customers. The Company is not aware of any material differences between its practices and those of other industry participants. Research and Development For information on company sponsored research and development costs in the last three fiscal years, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue and Long Lived Assets by Geographic Area For information on revenue and long lived assets by geographic area, see Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 1A: Risk Factors The risks described below could materially and adversely affect the Companys results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. These risks are not the only risks that the Company faces. The Companys business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to it or that the Company currently considers to be immaterial to its operations. Competitive pressures could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company operates in markets that are highly competitive. For example, the Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business competes with two national wholesale distributors, McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and a number of smaller regional wholesale distributors, self warehousing chains, direct selling manufacturers, specialty distributors and third party logistics companies. Competitive pressures could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Substantial defaults or a material reduction in purchases of the Companys products by large customers could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, a significant portion of the Companys revenue growth has been derived from a limited number of large customers. The Companys largest customers, CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 12 Table of Contents 21% and 14%, respectively, of the Companys revenue (by dollar volume) for fiscal 2006. The aggregate of the Companys five largest customers, including CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 46% of the Companys revenue (by dollar volume) for fiscal 2006. In addition, CVS and Walgreens accounted for 25% and 26%, respectively, of the Company gross trade receivable balance at June 30, 2006. As a result, the Companys sales and credit concentration is significant. Any defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases from these or other large customers could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. In addition, certain of the Companys businesses have entered into agreements with GPOs. Approximately 15% of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2006 was derived from GPO members through the contractual arrangements established with Novation and Premier. Generally, compliance by GPO members with GPO vendor selections is voluntary. Still, the loss of an agreement with a GPO could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition because the Company could lose customers or have to reduce prices as a result. Changes in the United States healthcare environment could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The healthcare industry has changed significantly over time and the Company expects the industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these changes, such as adverse changes in government funding of healthcare services, legislation or regulations governing the privacy of patient information, or the delivery or pricing of pharmaceuticals and healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of the Companys products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for the Companys products and services. Changes in the healthcare industrys pricing, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices, or changes in the Companys customer mix, could also significantly reduce the Companys revenue and results of operations. Healthcare and public policy trends indicate that the number of generic drugs will increase over the next few years as a result of the expiration of certain drug patents. A decrease in the availability or changes in pricing of generic drugs could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. There have been increasing efforts by various levels of government, including state departments of health, state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies, to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. Certain states, such as Florida, have already adopted laws and regulations, including pedigree tracking requirements, that are intended to protect the integrity of the pharmaceutical distribution system. Regulations adopted under the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act, which will be effective December 1, 2006, will also require the passage of pedigree information in defined circumstances. Other states and government agencies are currently considering similar laws and regulations. These laws and regulations could increase the overall regulatory burden and costs associated with the Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business, and could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. New federal legislation was enacted on February 8, 2006 that, among other things, changes the prescription drug reimbursement formula and related reporting requirements for generic pharmaceuticals under Medicaid to reduce costs for that program. Under this new legislation, the major changes with respect to generic pharmaceuticals are expected to become effective in 2007. Various administrative agencies are in the process of defining the specific details of the legislation. The Company is continuing to work with its customers and the regulatory agencies in this process. The Company is currently developing plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative changes. If the Company fails to successfully develop and implement such plans, this change in reimbursement formula and related reporting requirements and other provisions of this new legislation could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Companys Medical Products and Services segment, at times, purchases medical/surgical and laboratory products from vendors other than the original manufacturer of such products. Certain manufacturers 13 Table of Contents have adopted policies limiting the ability of the segments businesses to purchase products from anyone other than the manufacturer. If this practice becomes more widespread, the ability of the Medical Products and Services segment to purchase products from other distributors, as well as its ability to sell excess inventories to other distributors, may be impaired. This could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business is subject to inflation in branded pharmaceutical prices and deflation in generic pharmaceutical prices, which subjects the Company to risks and uncertainties. As part of the Pharmaceutical Distribution businesss transition to fee for service terms, some distribution service agreements entered into with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers continue to have an inflation based compensation component to them. Arrangements with other branded manufacturers continue to be solely inflation based. If the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price inflation slows, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, the Pharmaceutical Distribution business distributes generic pharmaceuticals, which are subject to price deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The ongoing SEC investigation and U.S. Attorney inquiry could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company is the subject of a formal SEC investigation and an inquiry by the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York. In April 2004, the Companys Audit Committee commenced its own internal review, assisted by independent counsel. Although the Company is continuing in its efforts to respond to these inquiries and provide all information required, the Company cannot predict the outcome of the SEC investigation or the U.S. Attorney inquiry. There can be no assurance that the scope of the SEC investigation or the U.S. Attorney inquiry will not expand or that other regulatory agencies will not become involved. The outcome of, and costs associated with, the SEC investigation and the U.S. Attorney inquiry could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The outcome of the SEC investigation, the U.S. Attorney inquiry and any related legal and administrative proceedings could include the institution of administrative, civil injunctive or criminal proceedings involving the Company and or current or former Company employees, officers and or directors, as well as the imposition of fines and other penalties, remedies and sanctions. The Company continues to engage in settlement discussions with the staff of the SEC and has reached an agreement in principle on the basic terms of a potential settlement involving the Company that the SEC staff has indicated it is prepared to recommend to the Commission. The proposed settlement is subject to the completion of definitive documentation as well as acceptance and authorization by the Commission and would, among other things, require the Company to pay a $35 million penalty. The Company accordingly recorded a reserve of $10 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 in addition to the $25 million reserve recorded during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. There can be no assurance that the Companys efforts to resolve the SECs investigation with respect to the Company will be successful, or that the amount reserved will be sufficient, and the Company cannot predict the timing or the final terms of any settlement. The Company is subject to legal proceedings that could adversely affect the Companys results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. The Company is involved in a number of legal proceedings, which, if decided adversely to the Company or settled by the Company, could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company is subject to several class action lawsuits brought against the Company and certain of its former and present officers and directors since July 2004. The Company is currently unable to predict or determine the outcome or resolution of these proceedings, or to estimate the amounts of, or potential range of, loss with respect to these proceedings. The range of possible resolutions of these proceedings could include judgments against the Company or settlements that could require substantial payments by the Company. These payments could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial condition, 14 Table of Contents liquidity and cash flows. The Company discusses these cases and other litigation to which it is a party in greater detail below under the caption Item 3 Legal Proceedings and in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the Company is subject to product and professional liability risks. The availability of product liability insurance for companies in the pharmaceutical industry is generally more limited than insurance available to companies in other industries. Insurance carriers providing product liability insurance to pharmaceutical companies generally limit the amount of available policy limits, require larger self insured retentions and include exclusions for certain products. There can be no assurance that a successful product or professional liability claim would be adequately covered by the Companys applicable insurance policies or by any applicable contractual indemnity and, as such, these claims could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Additional restatements may be required, the historical consolidated financial statements may change or require amendment or additional disciplinary actions may be required. During September and October 2004, the Audit Committee reached certain conclusions with respect to findings from its internal review, which were discussed in Notes 1 and 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2004 Form 10 K. In connection with these conclusions, the Audit Committee determined that the consolidated financial statements of the Company with respect to fiscal 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003, as well as the first three quarters of fiscal 2004, should be restated to reflect the conclusions from its internal review. In January 2005, the Audit Committee took disciplinary actions with respect to the Companys employees who it determined bore responsibility for certain of these matters. There can be no assurance that additional restatements will not be required, that the historical consolidated financial statements included in the Companys previously filed public reports or this report will not change or require amendment, or that additional disciplinary actions will not be required in such circumstances. In addition, as the SEC investigation and U.S. Attorney inquiry continue, new issues may be identified, or the Audit Committee may make additional findings if it receives additional information, that may have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements and the scope of the restatements described in the Companys previously filed public reports or this report. Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The healthcare industry is highly regulated. The Company is subject to various local, state, federal, foreign and transnational laws and regulations, which include the operating and security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, the NRC, DHHS, the European Union member states and other comparable agencies. Certain of the Companys subsidiaries may be required to register for permits and or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of, the DEA, the FDA, the NRC, DHHS and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and or comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies and certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale. Although the Company believes that it is in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion concerning the compliance of the Companys operations with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain or renew existing permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals or obtain without significant delay future permits, licenses or other approvals needed for the operation of the Companys businesses. Any noncompliance by the Company with applicable laws and regulations or the failure to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. On August 28, 2006, the Company announced that it has suspended production, sales, repairs and installation of its Alaris&reg; SE infusion pump after approximately 1,300 units were seized by the FDA. On August 15, 2006, the Company initiated a voluntary field corrective action of the product as a result of information indicating that a sensitive keypad posed a risk of key bounce and could lead to over infusion of patients. As part of the field corrective action, the Company sent letters and warning labels to its customers and is currently 15 Table of Contents testing a modification that reduces sensitivity of the keyboard. This modification will need to be validated on the product and approved by the FDA. These actions did not require the return of products currently in use by customers and the Company currently has no plans of recalling these products. The Company has stopped manufacturing and distribution of the Alaris SE infusion pumps pending resolution of the issue with the FDA. There have been approximately 140,000 Alaris SE infusion pumps distributed worldwide during the past 12 years and the product line currently represents less than 1% of annual revenue for the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. The Company does not believe that implementation of the modification currently being tested will materially affect the Companys results of operations or financial condition. However, the Company has not completed its testing or received approval from the FDA and if additional remedial actions are deemed necessary by the Company or the FDA, the effect could become material to the Companys results of operations or financial condition. The Company is subject to extensive local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government continues to scrutinize potentially fraudulent practices in the healthcare industry in an attempt to minimize the cost that such practices have on Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Many of these laws and regulations are complex and broadly written and could be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require the Company to make changes in its operations. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or its ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Circumstances associated with the Companys acquisition strategy could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. An important element of the Companys growth strategy historically has been the pursuit of acquisitions of other businesses which expand or complement the Companys existing businesses. Acquisitions involve risks, including the risk that the Company overpays for a business or is unable to obtain the synergies and other expected benefits from acquiring the business. Integrating acquired businesses also involves a number of special risks, including the following: the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations; unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems and realizing potential operating synergies; problems assimilating and retaining the employees of the acquired company or the Companys employees following an acquisition; accounting issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company, including unforeseen issues related to internal control over financial reporting; regulatory or compliance issues that could exist for an acquired company; challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses; and potential adverse short term effects on results of operations through increased costs or otherwise. If the Company is unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company could be adversely affected if transitions in senior management are not successful. The Companys operations depend to a large extent on the efforts of its senior management. On April 17, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed R. Kerry Clark as President and Chief Executive Officer. In connection with this appointment, the Companys former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Robert D. Walter, became Executive Chairman of the Board. In addition, several other members of senior management have joined the Company since the beginning of fiscal 2005. The Company seeks to develop and retain an effective management team through the proper positioning of existing key employees and the addition of new management personnel where necessary. The Companys results of operations could be adversely affected if transitions in senior management are not successful or if the Company is unable to sustain an effective management team. 16 Table of Contents The Companys future results of operations are subject to fluctuations in the costs and availability of purchased components, compounds, raw materials and energy. The Company depends on various components, compounds, raw materials, and energy (including oil and natural gas and their derivatives) supplied by others for the manufacturing of its products through its Medical Products and Services, Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services and Clinical Technologies and Services segments. It is possible that any of the Companys supplier relationships could be interrupted due to natural disasters or other events or could be terminated in the future. Any sustained interruption in the Companys receipt of adequate supplies could have an adverse effect on the Company. In addition, while the Company has processes to minimize volatility in component and material pricing, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to successfully manage price fluctuations or that future price fluctuations or shortages will not have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations. Proprietary technology protections may not be adequate. The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect a number of its products, services and intangible assets. These proprietary rights are important to the Companys ongoing operations. There can be no assurance that these protections will provide meaningful protection against competitive products or services or otherwise be commercially valuable or that the Company will be successful in obtaining additional intellectual property or enforcing its intellectual property rights against unauthorized users. There can be no assurance that the Companys competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Companys technology. The products that the Company manufactures or distributes may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, third parties have asserted infringement claims against the Company and there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against the Company in the future. While the Company believes that the products that it currently manufactures using its proprietary technology do not infringe upon proprietary rights of other parties or that meritorious defenses would exist with respect to any assertions to the contrary, there can be no assurance that the Company would not be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others. The Company may be subject to litigation over infringement claims regarding the products it manufactures or distributes. This type of litigation can be costly and time consuming and could generate significant expenses, damage payments or restrictions or prohibitions on the Companys use of its technology, which could adversely affect the Companys results of operations. In addition, if the Company is found to be infringing on proprietary rights of others, the Company may be required to develop non infringing technology, obtain a license or cease making, using and or selling the infringing products. Generic drug manufacturers are increasingly challenging the validity or enforceability of patents on branded pharmaceutical products. During the pendency of these legal challenges, a generics manufacturer may begin manufacturing and selling a generic version of the branded product prior to the final resolution to its legal challenge over the branded products patent. The Company may distribute that generic product purchased from the generics manufacturer. As a result, the brand name company may assert infringement claims against the Company. While the Company generally obtains indemnity rights from generic manufacturers as a condition of distributing their products, there can be no assurances that these indemnity rights will be adequate or sufficient to protect the Company. 17 Table of Contents Risks generally associated with the Companys information systems could adversely affect the Companys results of operations. The Company relies on information systems in its business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to: facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and process payments to suppliers. The Companys results of operations could be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events or fail for any extended period of time, including due to the actions of third parties. Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to the Companys tax positions could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company is a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and international jurisdictions. As such, the Company is subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of many international jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect the Companys tax positions. There can be no assurance that the Companys effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as international, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that the Companys tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that the Company would be successful in any such challenge. The Companys global operations are subject to a number of economic, political and regulatory risks. The Company conducts its operations in various regions of the world outside of the United States, including North America, South America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Global economic and regulatory developments affect businesses such as the Companys in many ways. Operations are subject to the effects of global competition. Particular local jurisdiction risks include regulatory risks arising from local laws. The Companys global operations are affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with the Companys supply chain and customers and all of its activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments On October 6, 2005, the Company received a comment letter from the Staff of the SECs Division of Corporation Finance (the Staff) with respect to the Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 (the 2005 Form 10 K). The Company responded to the Staffs comments on November 23, 2005. The Company has since received follow up comment letters from the Staff and the Company has responded to all subsequent comment letters. The principal unresolved comments have focused on the Companys disclosure in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of the 2005 Form 10 K with respect to the definition of bulk revenue and non bulk revenue and the characteristics of transactions that distinguish these two types of revenue. In response to the Staffs comment letters, the Company has included certain additional disclosures and revised disclosures in this Form 10 K. As of the date of the filing of this Form 10 K, the Staff continues to review the Companys responses and, therefore, certain of the October 6, 2005 comments (as well as certain comments in subsequent letters) remain unresolved. The Company will continue to respond to any additional comment letters that the Company receives from the Staff. 18 Table of Contents Item 2: Properties In the United States, the Company has 30 pharmaceutical distribution facilities and two specialty distribution facilities utilized by its Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment. In its Medical Products and Services segment, the Company has 49 medical surgical distribution facilities and 17 medical surgical manufacturing facilities. In its Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, the Company has 204 U.S. sites, 176 of which are Nuclear Pharmacy Services laboratory, manufacturing and distribution facilities, and the remainder of which are Packaging Services, Oral Technologies, Pharmaceutical Development and Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences facilities and one Specialty Pharmaceutical Services site. In its Clinical Technologies and Services segment, the Company has four U.S assembly operation facilities. The Companys U.S. operating facilities are located in 42 states and in Puerto Rico. Outside of the United States, the Company owns or leases 20 facilities through its Medical Products and Services segment, located in Australia, Canada, Dominican Republic, France, Germany, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico and Thailand. The Company owns or leases 19 operating facilities through its Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, located in Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan and the United Kingdom. The Company owns or leases four manufacturing and distribution facilities through its Clinical Technologies and Services segment in Australia, Italy, Mexico and the United Kingdom. The Company owns 110 of its operating facilities, and the remaining 239 operating facilities are leased. The Companys principal executive offices are headquartered in a leased four story building located at 7000 Cardinal Place in Dublin, Ohio. The Company considers its operating properties to be in satisfactory condition and adequate to meet its present needs. However, the Company regularly evaluates its operating properties and may make further additions, improvements and consolidations as it continues to seek opportunities to expand its role as a provider of products and services to the healthcare industry. For certain financial information regarding the Companys facilities, see Notes 8 and 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 3: Legal Proceedings Antitrust Litigation against Pharmaceutical Manufacturers During the last several years, numerous class action lawsuits have been filed against certain prescription drug manufacturers alleging that the prescription drug manufacturer, by itself or in concert with others, took improper actions to delay or prevent generic drug competition against the manufacturers brand name drug. The Company has not been a named plaintiff in any of these class actions, but has been a member of the direct purchasers class (i.e., those purchasers who purchase directly from these drug manufacturers). None of the class actions has gone to trial, but some have settled in the past with the Company receiving proceeds from the settlement fund. Currently, there are several such class actions pending in which the Company is a class member. Total recoveries to the Company from these actions through June 30, 2006 were $123.1 million. Additionally, in July 2006, the Company received its share of the settlement proceeds for one of these actions, approximately $7.3 million, which will be reported as a special item in the Companys first quarter fiscal 2007 results. The Company is unable at this time to estimate future recoveries, if any, it will receive as a result of these class actions. Environmental Claims In September 1996, Baxter International Inc. (Baxter) and its subsidiaries transferred to Allegiance Corporation and its subsidiaries (Allegiance), Baxters U.S. healthcare distribution business, surgical and respiratory therapy business and healthcare cost management business, as well as certain foreign operations (the 19 Table of Contents Allegiance Business) in connection with a spin off of the Allegiance Business by Baxter. In connection with this spin off, Allegiance Corporation, which later merged with a subsidiary of the Company in February 1999, agreed to defend and indemnify Baxter from the following environmental claims. The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality brought suit against Baxter as a potentially responsible party (PRP) along with a number of other PRPs in 1994 in the Circuit Court of the State of Michigan for Ingham County alleging contamination of the A 1 disposal site in Plainwell, Michigan (A 1 Plainwell). Among the contaminants at the site were solvent wastes generated by Burdick & Jackson (Burdick) of Muskegon, Michigan. Baxter became a PRP through its acquisition of Burdick in 1986. Allegiance agreed to defend and indemnify Baxter in this claim as part of the Baxter Allegiance Spin Off. The principal relief sought was for the PRPs to clean up the site to applicable standards and to reimburse the government for its oversight and other costs at the site. In a related action, Allegiance, through its association with Baxter and Burdick, was named a PRP to reimburse the State of Michigan for reimbursement costs associated with the construction of a landfill cap and continued operation, maintenance and monitoring of the A 1 Sunrise site in Michigan (A 1 Sunrise). Allegiance has paid approximately $95,000 for past remediation costs at the A 1 Plainwell site and approximately $230,000 at the A 1 Sunrise site. Remediation of the A 1 Plainwell site is substantially complete, subject to minimal operation, maintenance and monitoring of the site. Allegiances share of future remediation at the A 1 Sunrise site is approximately 1.8%. Allegiance has recorded environmental accruals based upon the information available that it believes are adequate to satisfy known costs. The Company believes that the impact of these claims upon Allegiance will be immaterial to the Companys results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the Burdick acquisition, Baxter was identified by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as a PRP for clean up costs related to the Thermochem waste processing site in Muskegon, Michigan. Allegiance agreed to defend and indemnify Baxter in this claim as part of the Baxter Allegiance spin off. Based upon the information available, Allegiance believes the total clean up cost of this site to be between approximately $17 million and $23 million. A well funded PRP group, of which Allegiance is a member, has spent approximately $10 million in clean up costs. Allegiance believes that current available funding of the PRP group, along with Allegiances additional recorded environmental accruals, are adequate to satisfy known costs. The Company believes that the impact of this claim upon Allegiance will be immaterial to the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Derivative Actions On November 8, 2002, a complaint was filed by a purported shareholder against the Company and its directors in the Court of Common Pleas, Delaware County, Ohio, as a purported derivative action. Doris Staehr v. Robert D. Walter, et al., No. 02 CVG 11 639. On or about March 21, 2003, after the defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the complaint, an amended complaint was filed alleging breach of fiduciary duties and corporate waste in connection with the alleged failure by the Board of Directors of the Company to renegotiate or terminate the Companys proposed acquisition of Syncor, and to determine the propriety of indemnifying Monty Fu, the former Chairman of Syncor. The defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the amended complaint, and the plaintiffs subsequently filed a second amended complaint that added three new individual defendants and included new allegations that, among other things, the defendants improperly recognized revenue in December 2000 and September 2001 related to settlements with certain vitamin manufacturers. The defendants filed a Motion to Dismiss the second amended complaint, and on November 20, 2003, the Court denied the motion. On May 31, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint, which now mirrors most of the substantive allegations of the consolidated amended complaint filed in the Cardinal Health federal securities actions (see Shareholder/ERISA Litigation against Cardinal Health below). The defendants intend to vigorously defend this action. It is not currently possible to estimate the amount of loss or range of possible loss that might result from an adverse judgment or a settlement of this proceeding. However, the Company currently does not believe that this proceeding will have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations or financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Since July 1, 2004, three complaints have been filed by purported shareholders against the members of the Companys Board of Directors, certain of the Companys current and former officers and employees and the Company as a nominal defendant in the Court of Common Pleas, Franklin County, Ohio, as purported derivative actions (collectively referred to as the Cardinal Health Franklin County derivative actions). These cases include Donald Bosley, Derivatively on behalf of Cardinal Health, Inc. v. David Bing, et al., Sam Wietschner, Derivatively on behalf of Cardinal Health, Inc. v. Robert D. Walter, et al. and Green Meadow Partners, LLP, Derivatively on behalf of Cardinal Health, Inc. v. David Bing, et al. The Cardinal Health Franklin County derivative actions allege that the individual defendants failed to implement adequate internal controls for the Company and thereby violated their fiduciary duty of good faith, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the Companys Audit Committee charter. The complaints in the Cardinal Health Franklin County derivative actions seek money damages and equitable relief against the defendant directors and an award of attorneys fees. On November 22, 2004, the Cardinal Health Franklin County derivative actions were transferred to be heard by the same judge. On June 20, 2006, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint that raises many of the same substantive allegations as the consolidated amended complaint filed in the Cardinal Health federal securities actions (see Shareholder/ERISA Litigation against Cardinal Health below) and the Bean complaint (see below). On August 22, 2006, the Court granted the parties joint Motion to Stay the actions pending the Courts resolution of the plaintiffs Motion to Consolidate the Cardinal Health Franklin County derivative actions with the Staehr derivative action pending in Delaware County, which is discussed above. None of the defendants has responded to the complaint. It is not currently possible to estimate the amount of loss or range of possible loss that might result from an adverse judgment or a settlement of these proceedings. On December 6, 2005, a derivative complaint was filed by a purported shareholder against certain members of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Companys Board of Directors, certain of the Companys current and former officers and the Company as a nominal defendant in the Court of Common Pleas, Franklin County, Ohio, as a purported derivative action. Vernon Bean v. John F. Havens, et al., No. 05CVH 12 13644. The complaint alleges that the individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties with respect to the timing of the Companys option grants in August 2004 and that the officer defendants were unjustly enriched with respect to such grants. The complaint seeks money damages, disgorgement of options, equitable relief against the individual defendants and an award of attorneys fees. On July 20, 2006, the Court conditionally granted defendants Motion to Dismiss for failure to verify the complaint as required. The dismissal was entered on August 23, 2006. Shareholder/ERISA Litigation against Cardinal Health Since July 2, 2004, 10 purported class action complaints have been filed by purported purchasers of the Companys securities against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors, asserting claims under the federal securities laws (collectively referred to as the Cardinal Health federal securities actions). To date, all of these actions have been filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. These cases include Gerald Burger v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 575), Todd Fener v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 579), E. Miles Senn v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 597), David Kim v. Cardinal Health, Inc. (04 CV 598), Arace Brothers v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 604), John Hessian v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 635), Constance Matthews Living Trust v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 636), Mariss Partners, LLP v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 849), The State of New Jersey v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 831) and First New York Securities, LLC v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 911). The Cardinal Health federal securities actions purport to be brought on behalf of all purchasers of the Companys securities during various periods beginning as early as October 24, 2000 and ending as late as July 26, 2004 and allege, among other things, that the defendants violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act by issuing a series of false and or misleading statements concerning the Companys financial results, prospects and condition. The alleged misstatements relate to the Companys accounting for recoveries relating to antitrust litigation against vitamin manufacturers, and to classification of revenue in the Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business as either operating revenue or revenue from bulk deliveries to customer warehouses, and other accounting and business 21 Table of Contents model transition issues, including reserve accounting. The alleged misstatements are claimed to have caused an artificial inflation in the Companys stock price during the proposed class period. The complaints seek unspecified money damages and equitable relief against the defendants and an award of attorneys fees. On December 15, 2004, the Cardinal Health federal securities actions were consolidated into one action captioned In re Cardinal Health, Inc. Federal Securities Litigation, and on January 26, 2005, the Court appointed the Pension Fund Group as lead plaintiff in this consolidated action. On April 22, 2005, the lead plaintiff filed a consolidated amended complaint naming the Company, certain current and former officers and employees and the Companys external auditors as defendants. The complaint seeks unspecified money damages and other unspecified relief against the defendants and includes the aforementioned Section 10(b), Rule 10b 5 and Section 20 claims. On March 27, 2006, the Court granted a Motion to Dismiss with respect to the Companys external auditors and a former officer and denied the Motion to Dismiss with respect to the Company and the other individual defendants. Discovery is now proceeding. Since July 2, 2004, 15 purported class action complaints (collectively referred to as the Cardinal Health ERISA actions) have been filed against the Company and certain officers, directors and employees of the Company by purported participants in the Cardinal Health Profit Sharing, Retirement and Savings Plan (now known as the Cardinal Health 401(k) Savings Plan, or the 401(k) Plan). To date, all of these actions have been filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. These cases include David McKeehan and James Syracuse v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 643), Timothy Ferguson v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 668), James DeCarlo v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 684), Margaret Johnson v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 722), Harry Anderson v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 725), Charles Heitholt v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 736), Dan Salinas and Andrew Jones v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 745), Daniel Kelley v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 746), Vincent Palyan v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 778), Saul Cohen v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 789), Travis Black v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 790), Wendy Erwin v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 803), Susan Alston v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 815), Jennifer Brister v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (04 CV 828) and Gint Baukus v. Cardinal Health, Inc., et al. (05 C2 101). The Cardinal Health ERISA actions purport to be brought on behalf of participants in the 401(k) Plan and the Syncor Employees Savings and Stock Ownership Plan (the Syncor ESSOP, and together with the 401(k) Plan, the Plans), and also on behalf of the Plans themselves. The complaints allege that the defendants breached certain fiduciary duties owed under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), generally asserting that the defendants failed to make full disclosure of the risks to the Plans participants of investing in the Companys stock, to the detriment of the Plans participants and beneficiaries, and that Company stock should not have been made available as an investment alternative for the Plans participants. The misstatements alleged in the Cardinal Health ERISA actions significantly overlap with the misstatements alleged in the Cardinal Health federal securities actions. The complaints seek unspecified money damages and equitable relief against the defendants and an award of attorneys fees. On December 15, 2004, the Cardinal Health ERISA actions were consolidated into one action captioned In re Cardinal Health, Inc. ERISA Litigation. On January 14, 2005, the Court appointed lead counsel and liaison counsel for the consolidated Cardinal Health ERISA action. On April 29, 2005, the lead plaintiff filed a consolidated amended ERISA complaint naming the Company, certain current and former directors, officers and employees, the Companys Employee Benefits Policy Committee and Putnam Fiduciary Trust Company as defendants. The complaint seeks unspecified money damages and other unspecified relief against the defendants. On March 31, 2006, the Court granted the Motion to Dismiss with respect to Putnam Fiduciary Trust Company and with respect to plaintiffs claim for equitable relief. The Court denied the remainder of the Motion to Dismiss filed by the Company and certain defendants. Discovery is now proceeding. With respect to the proceedings described above under the headings Derivative Actions and Shareholder/ERISA Litigation Against Cardinal Health, the Company currently believes that there will be some insurance coverage available under the Companys insurance policies. Such policies are with financially viable insurance companies, and are subject to self insurance retentions, exclusions, conditions, any potential coverage defenses or gaps, policy limits and insurer solvency. 22 Table of Contents The Company is currently unable to predict or determine the outcome or resolution of the proceedings described under the heading Shareholder/ERISA Litigation Against Cardinal Health, or to estimate the amounts of, or potential range of, loss with respect to these proceedings. The range of possible resolutions of these proceedings could include judgments against the Company or settlements that could require substantial payments by the Company. These payments could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. Shareholder/ERISA Litigation against Syncor Eleven purported class action lawsuits have been filed against Syncor and certain of its officers and directors, asserting claims under the federal securities laws (collectively referred to as the Syncor federal securities actions). All of these actions were filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. These cases include Richard Bowe v. Syncor Intl Corp., et al., No. CV 02 8560 LGB (RCx) (C.D. Cal.), Alan Kaplan v. Syncor Intl Corp., et al., No. CV 02 8575 CBM (MANx) (C.D. Cal), Franklin Embon, Jr. v. Syncor Intl Corp., et al., No. CV 02 8687 DDP (AJWx) (C.D. Cal), Jonathan Alk v. Syncor Intl Corp., et al., No. CV 02 8841 GHK (RZx) (C.D. Cal), Joyce Oldham v. Syncor Intl Corp., et al., CV 02 8972 FMC (RCx) (C.D. Cal), West Virginia Laborers Pension Trust Fund v. Syncor Intl Corp., et al., No. CV 02 9076 NM (RNBx) (C.D. Cal), Brad Lookingbill v. Syncor Intl Corp., et al., CV 02 9248 RSWL (Ex) (C.D. Cal), Them Luu v. Syncor Intl Corp., et al., CV 02 9583 RGK (JwJx) (C.D. Cal), David Hall v. Syncor Intl Corp., et al., CV 02 9621 CAS (CWx) (C.D. Cal), Phyllis Walzer v. Syncor Intl Corp., et al., CV 02 9640 RMT (AJWx) (C.D. Cal), and Larry Hahn v. Syncor Intl Corp., et al., CV 03 52 LGB (RCx) (C.D. Cal.). The Syncor federal securities actions purport to be brought on behalf of all purchasers of Syncor shares during various periods, beginning as early as March 30, 2000 and ending as late as November 5, 2002. The actions allege, among other things, that the defendants violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b 5 promulgated thereunder and Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act by issuing a series of press releases and public filings disclosing significant sales growth in Syncors international business, but omitting mention of certain allegedly improper payments to Syncors foreign customers, thereby artificially inflating the price of Syncor shares. The lead plaintiff filed a third amended consolidated complaint on December 29, 2004. Syncor filed a Motion to Dismiss the third amended consolidated complaint on January 31, 2005. On April 15, 2005, the Court granted the Motion to Dismiss with prejudice. The lead plaintiff has appealed this decision. A purported class action complaint, captioned Pilkington v. Cardinal Health, et al., was filed on April 8, 2003 against the Company, Syncor and certain officers and employees of the Company by a purported participant in the Syncor ESSOP. A related purported class action complaint, captioned Donna Brown, et al. v. Syncor International Corp, et al., was filed on September 11, 2003 against the Company, Syncor and certain individual defendants. Another related purported class action complaint, captioned Thompson v. Syncor International Corp., et al., was filed on January 14, 2004 against the Company, Syncor and certain individual defendants. Each of these actions was brought in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. A consolidated complaint was filed on February 24, 2004 against Syncor and certain former Syncor officers, directors and or employees alleging that the defendants breached certain fiduciary duties owed under ERISA based on the same underlying allegations of improper and unlawful conduct alleged in the federal securities litigation. The consolidated complaint seeks unspecified money damages and other unspecified relief against the defendants. On April 26, 2004, the defendants filed Motions to Dismiss the consolidated complaint. On August 24, 2004, the Court granted in part and denied in part defendants Motions to Dismiss. The Court dismissed, without prejudice, all claims against two individual defendants, all claims alleging co fiduciary liability against all defendants, and all claims alleging that the individual defendants had conflicts of interest precluding them from properly exercising their fiduciary duties under ERISA. A claim for breach of the duty to prudently manage plan assets was upheld against Syncor, and a claim for breach of the alleged duty to monitor the performance of Syncors Plan Administrative Committee was upheld against defendants Monty Fu and Robert Funari. On January 10, 2006, the Court entered summary judgment in favor of all defendants on all remaining claims. Consistent with that ruling, on January 11, 2006, the Court entered a final order dismissing this case. The lead plaintiff has appealed this decision. 23 Table of Contents It is not currently possible to estimate the amount of loss or range of possible loss that might result from an adverse judgment or a settlement of the proceedings described under the heading Shareholder/ERISA Litigation Against Syncor. However, the Company currently does not believe that the impact of these proceedings will have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations or financial condition. The Company currently believes that there will be some insurance coverage available under the Companys and Syncors insurance policies. Such policies are with financially viable insurance companies, and are subject to self insurance retentions, exclusions, conditions, any potential coverage defenses or gaps, policy limits and insurer solvency. DuPont Litigation On September 11, 2003, E.I. Du Pont De Nemours and Company (DuPont) filed a lawsuit against the Company and others in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee. E.I. Du Pont De Nemours and Company v. Cardinal Health, Inc., BBA Materials Technology and BBA Nonwovens Simpsonville, Inc., No. 3 03 0848. The complaint alleges various causes of action against the Company relating to the production and sale of surgical drapes and gowns by the Companys Medical Products and Services segment. DuPonts claims generally fall into the categories of breach of contract, false advertising and patent infringement. On September 12, 2005, the Court granted summary judgment in favor of the Company on all of DuPonts patent infringement claims. On November 7, 2005, the Court granted summary judgment in favor of the Company on DuPonts federal false advertising claims and dismissed all of Duponts remaining claims for lack of jurisdiction. On October 17, 2005, DuPont filed a lawsuit against the Company in the Circuit Court for Davidson County, Tennessee. E.I. DuPont De Nemours and Company v. Cardinal Health 200, Inc., No. 05C3191. This lawsuit essentially repeats the breach of contract claims from DuPonts earlier federal lawsuit. The complaint does not request a specific amount of damages. The Company believes that the claims made in the complaint are without merit, and it intends to vigorously defend this action. It is not currently possible to estimate the amount of loss or range of possible loss that might result from an adverse judgment or a settlement of this proceeding. However, the Company currently does not believe that the impact of this proceeding, if any, will have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations or financial condition. ICU Litigation Prior to the completion of the Companys acquisition of ALARIS Medical Products, Inc. (Alaris), on June 16, 2004, ICU Medical, Inc. (ICU) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Alaris in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. In the lawsuit, ICU claims that the Alaris SmartSite&reg; family of needle free valves and systems infringes upon ICU patents. ICU seeks monetary damages plus permanent injunctive relief to prevent Alaris from selling SmartSite&reg; products. On July 30, 2004, the Court denied ICUs application for a preliminary injunction finding, among other things, that ICU had failed to show a substantial likelihood of success on the merits. The Company intends to vigorously defend this action. It is currently not possible to estimate the amount of loss or range of possible loss that might result from an adverse judgment or a settlement of this proceeding. However, the Company currently does not believe that this proceeding will have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations or financial condition. SEC Investigation and U.S. Attorney Inquiry On October 7, 2003, the Company received a request from the SEC, in connection with an informal inquiry, for historical financial and related information. The SECs request sought a variety of documentation, including the Companys accounting records for fiscal 2001 through fiscal 2003, as well as notes, memoranda, presentations, e mail and other correspondence, budgets, forecasts and estimates. On May 6, 2004, the Company was notified that the pending SEC informal inquiry had been converted into a formal investigation. On June 21, 2004, as part of the SECs formal investigation, the Company received an 24 Table of Contents SEC subpoena that included a request for the production of documents relating to revenue classification, and the methods used for such classification, in the Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business as either Operating Revenue or Bulk Deliveries to Customer Warehouses and Other. In addition, the Company learned that the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York had also commenced an inquiry that the Company understands relates to this same subject. On October 12, 2004, the Company received a subpoena from the SEC requesting the production of documents relating to compensation information for specific current and former employees and officers of the Company. The Company was notified in April 2005 that certain current and former employees and directors received subpoenas from the SEC requesting the production of documents. The subject matter of these requests is consistent with the subject matter of the subpoenas that the Company had previously received from the SEC. In connection with the SECs informal inquiry, the Companys Audit Committee commenced its own internal review in April 2004, assisted by independent counsel. This internal review was prompted by documents contained in the production to the SEC that raised issues as to certain accounting and financial reporting matters, including, but not limited to, the establishment and adjustment of certain reserves and their impact on the Companys quarterly earnings. The Audit Committee and its independent counsel also have reviewed the revenue classification issue that is the subject of the SECs June 21, 2004 subpoena and other matters identified in the course of the Audit Committees internal review. During September and October 2004, the Audit Committee reached certain conclusions with respect to findings from its internal review. In connection with the Audit Committees conclusions reached in September and October 2004, the Company made certain reclassification and restatement adjustments to its fiscal 2004 and prior historical consolidated financial statements. The Audit Committees conclusions were disclosed, and the reclassification and restatement adjustments were reflected, in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 (the 2004 Form 10 K) and subsequent public reports filed by the Company. Following the conclusions reached by the Audit Committee in September and October 2004, the Audit Committee began the task of assigning responsibility for the financial statement matters described above which were reflected in the 2004 Form 10 K, and, in January 2005, took disciplinary actions with respect to the Companys employees who it determined bore responsibility for these matters, other than with respect to the accounting treatment of certain recoveries from vitamin manufacturers for which there was a separate Board committee internal review that has been completed (discussed below). The disciplinary actions ranged from terminations or resignations of employment to required repayments of some or all of fiscal 2003 bonuses from certain employees to letters of reprimand. These disciplinary actions affected senior financial and managerial personnel, as well as other personnel, at the corporate level and in the four business segments. The Audit Committee has completed its determinations of responsibility for the financial statement matters described above which were reflected in the 2004 Form 10 K, although responsibility for matters relating to the Companys accounting treatment of certain recoveries from vitamin manufacturers was addressed by a separate committee of the Board as discussed below. The Audit Committee internal review is substantially complete. In connection with the SECs formal investigation, a committee of the Board of Directors, with the assistance of independent counsel, separately initiated an internal review to assign responsibility for matters relating to the Companys accounting treatment of certain recoveries from vitamin manufacturers. In the 2004 Form 10 K, as part of the Audit Committees internal review, the Company reversed its previous recognition of estimated recoveries from vitamin manufacturers for amounts overcharged in prior years and recognized the income from such recoveries as a special item in the period in which cash was received from the manufacturers. The SEC staff had previously advised the Company that, in its view, the Company did not have an appropriate basis for recognizing the income in advance of receiving the cash. In August 2005, the separate Board committee reached certain conclusions with respect to findings from its internal review and determined that no additional disciplinary actions were required beyond the disciplinary actions already taken by the Audit Committee, as described above. The separate Board committee internal review is complete. The Company continues to engage in settlement discussions with the staff of the SEC and has reached an agreement in principle on the basic terms of a potential settlement involving the Company that the SEC staff has 25 Table of Contents indicated it is prepared to recommend to the Commission. The proposed settlement is subject to the completion of definitive documentation as well as acceptance and authorization by the Commission and would, among other things, require the Company to pay a $35 million penalty. The Company accordingly recorded a reserve of $10 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 in addition to the $25 million reserve recorded during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. There can be no assurance that the Companys efforts to resolve the SECs investigation with respect to the Company will be successful, or that the amount reserved will be sufficient, and the Company cannot predict the timing or the final terms of any settlement. The SEC investigation and the U.S. Attorney inquiry remain ongoing. Although the Company is continuing in its efforts to respond to these inquiries and provide all information required, the Company cannot predict the outcome of the SEC investigation or the U.S. Attorney inquiry. The outcome of the SEC investigation, the U.S. Attorney inquiry and any related legal and administrative proceedings could include the institution of administrative, civil injunctive or criminal proceedings involving the Company and or current or former Company employees, officers and or directors, as well as the imposition of fines and other penalties, remedies and sanctions. In addition, there can be no assurance that additional restatements will not be required, that the historical consolidated financial statements included in the Companys previously filed public reports or this report will not change or require amendment, or that additional disciplinary actions will not be required in such circumstances. In addition, as the SEC investigation and the U.S. Attorney inquiry continue, new issues may be identified, or the Audit Committee may make additional findings if it receives additional information, that may have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements and the scope of the restatements described in the Companys previously filed public reports or this report. FTC Investigation In December 2004, the Company received a request for documents from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) asking the Company to voluntarily produce certain documents to the FTC. The document request, which does not allege any wrongdoing, is part of an FTC non public investigation to determine whether the Company may be engaging in anticompetitive practices with other wholesale drug distributors in order to limit competition for provider and retail customers. The Company has been responding to the FTC request. The investigation is ongoing. The Company cannot currently predict its outcome or its ultimate impact on the Companys business. New York Attorney General Investigation In April 2005, one of the Companys subsidiaries received a subpoena from the Attorney Generals Office of the State of New York. The Company believes that the New York Attorney General is conducting a broad industry inquiry that appears to focus on, among other things, the secondary market within the wholesale pharmaceutical industry. The Company is one of multiple parties that have received such a subpoena. The Company has been producing documents and providing information and testimony to the New York Attorney Generals Office in response to the April 2005 subpoena as well as subsequent informal requests. The Company has recently commenced negotiations with the New York Attorney Generals Office for a civil resolution of this investigation. In connection with these developments, the Company recorded a reserve of $8.0 million with respect to this matter during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. There can be no assurance that the Companys efforts to resolve the New York Attorney Generals Offices investigation with respect to the Company will be successful, or that the amount reserved will be sufficient, and the Company cannot predict the timing or the final terms of any settlement. Illinois Attorney General Investigation In October 2005, the Company received a subpoena from the Attorney Generals Office of the State of Illinois. The subpoena indicated that the Illinois Attorney Generals Office is examining whether the Company presented or caused to be presented false claims for payment to the Illinois Medicaid program related to repackaged pharmaceuticals. The Company is responding to the subpoena. The investigation is ongoing. The Company cannot currently predict its outcome or its ultimate impact on the Companys business. 26 Table of Contents Other Matters In addition to the matters described above, the Company also becomes involved from time to time in other litigation and regulatory matters incidental to its business, including, without limitation, inclusion of certain of its subsidiaries as a potentially responsible party for environmental clean up costs as well as litigation in connection with acquisitions. The Company intends to vigorously defend itself against such other litigation and does not currently believe that the outcome of any such other litigation will have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and government agencies continue to increase their scrutiny over certain practices affecting government programs and otherwise. From time to time, the Company receives subpoenas or requests for information from various government agencies, including from state attorneys general, the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice relating to the business, accounting or disclosure practices of customers or suppliers. The Company generally responds to such subpoenas and requests in a timely and thorough manner, which responses sometimes require considerable time and effort, and can result in considerable costs being incurred, by the Company. The Company expects to incur additional costs in the future in connection with existing and future requests. Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None during the quarter ended June 30, 2006. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following is a list of the executive officers of the Company (information provided as of August 31, 2006): NAME AGE POSITION R. Kerry Clark 54 President and Chief Executive Officer Robert D. Walter 61 Executive Chairman of the Board David L. Schlotterbeck 59 Chief Executive Officer Pharmaceutical and Medical Products Jeffrey W. Henderson 41 Chief Financial Officer Ivan K. Fong 45 Chief Legal Officer and Secretary Brendan A. Ford 48 Executive Vice President Corporate Development Daniel J. Walsh 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Carole S. Watkins 46 Chief Human Resources Officer Unless otherwise indicated, the business experience summaries provided below for the Companys executive officers describe positions held by the named individuals during the last five years. Mr. Clark has served as the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer since April 2006. Prior to joining the Company, he was Vice Chairman of the Board P&G Family Health of The Procter & Gamble Company, a consumer products company, since 2004. Prior to that, he had served in numerous positions with Procter & Gamble since joining the company in 1974. He also served as a director of Procter & Gamble since 2002. Mr. Clark has served as a director of the Company since April 2006 and also is a director of Textron Inc., an aircraft, automotive and industrial products manufacturer and financial services company. Mr. Walter has served as Executive Chairman of the Board since April 2006. Prior to that, he served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since its formation in 1979, and with the Companys predecessor business since its formation in 1971. He is also a director of the American Express Company, a travel, financial and network services company. He is the father of Matthew D. Walter, a director of the Company. 27 Table of Contents Mr. Schlotterbeck has served as Chief Executive Officer Pharmaceutical and Medical Products since August 2006. Prior to that, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Clinical Technologies and Services since August 2004. He was President of Alaris, a subsidiary of the Company, from June 2004 when the Company acquired Alaris until August 2004. He was President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of Alaris from November 1999 to June 2004. Mr. Henderson has served as Chief Financial Officer since May 2005 after joining the Company as an Executive Vice President in April 2005. Prior to joining the Company, he was President and General Manager of Eli Lilly Canada, Inc., a subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company, a pharmaceutical company, from July 2003 to April 2005. He was Vice President and Corporate Controller of Eli Lilly from January 2000 to July 2003. Mr. Fong has served as Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since November 2005. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of GE Vendor Financial Services, a unit of General Electric Company, a diversified technology, media and financial services company, since January 2004. Prior to that, he served as General Electrics Chief Privacy Leader and Senior Counsel, Information Technology from August 2002 to December 2003 and Senior Counsel, E Commerce and Information Technology from April 2000 to July 2002. Mr. Ford has served as Executive Vice President Corporate Development since November 1999. He also served as Interim General Counsel and Secretary from April 2005 to November 2005. Mr. Walsh has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer since May 2005. Prior to joining the Company, he was Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer of Scientific Atlanta Inc., a cable and telecommunications manufacturing company, from May 2003 to May 2005. Prior to that, he held various compliance roles, including Vice President, Audit and Compliance and Corporate Compliance Officer, with TI Group PLC/Smiths Group PLC (TI and Smiths merged January 2001), a medical, industrial and aerospace manufacturing company, from 1993 to May 2003. Ms. Watkins has served as Chief Human Resources Officer and its predecessor position, Executive Vice President Human Resources, since August 2000. 28 Table of Contents PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Common Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CAH. The following table reflects the range of the reported high and low closing prices of the Common Shares as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape and the per share dividends declared for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006 and 2005, and through the period ended on August 31, 2006, the last full trading day prior to the date of the filing of this Form 10 K. High Low Dividends Fiscal 2005 Quarter Ended: September 30, 2004 $ 52.86 $ 42.33 $ 0.03 December 31, 2004 58.55 37.65 0.03 March 31, 2005 60.09 53.78 0.03 June 30, 2005 60.80 53.28 0.06 Fiscal 2006 Quarter Ended: September 30, 2005 $ 63.44 $ 57.28 $ 0.06 December 31, 2005 69.24 60.49 0.06 March 31, 2006 75.34 67.91 0.06 June 30, 2006 74.91 62.83 0.09 Fiscal 2007 Through August 31, 2006 $ 68.15 $ 62.80 $ 0.09 As of August 31, 2006 there were approximately 18,800 shareholders of record of the Common Shares. The Company anticipates that it will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future. However, the payment and amount of future dividends remain within the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors and will depend upon the Companys future earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period TotalNumber of SharesPurchased Average PricePaid per Share Total Number ofShares Purchased asPart of PubliclyAnnounced Program (1) ApproximateDollar Value ofShares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Program April 1 30, 2006 634 (2)(4) $ 68.20 $ 500,000,000 May 1 31, 2006 4,608,445 (3)(4) 67.23 4,605,000 190,307,071 June 1 30, 2006 2,824,105 (4) 67.37 2,823,900 Total 7,433,184 $ 67.28 7,428,900 $ (1) On April 27, 2006, the Company announced a $500 million share repurchase program. The program expired when the entire $500 million in aggregate purchase price of Common Shares was repurchased during the fourth quarter. (2) Includes 442 Common Shares owned and tendered in April 2006 by an employee to meet the exercise price and tax withholding for an option exercise. (3) Includes 1,479 Common Shares owned and tendered in May 2006 by a director to meet the exercise price for an option exercise. (4) Includes 192, 1,966 and 205 Common Shares purchased in April, May and June 2006, respectively, through a rabbi trust as investments of participants in the Companys Deferred Compensation Plan. 29 Table of Contents On July 11, 2006, the Company agreed to repurchase $395 million of its Common Shares in a private transaction with an unaffiliated third party. The share repurchase, which was completed on July 14, 2006, was a part of a $500 million share repurchase program approved by the Companys Board of Directors on June 28, 2006. On August 3, 2006, the Company announced a $1.5 billion share repurchase program in addition to the $500 million plan approved on June 28, 2006. The Company plans to complete the combined $2 billion share repurchase during fiscal 2007 and 2008. The program will expire when the entire $2 billion in aggregate purchase price of Common Shares has been repurchased. Item 6: Selected Financial Data The consolidated financial data include all business combinations as of the date of acquisition that occurred during these periods. The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and related notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (in millions, except per Common Share amounts) At or For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (1) 2006(4) 2005 2004(2) 2003(2) 2002(2)(3) Earnings Data: Revenue $ 81,363.6 $ 74,271.6 $ 64,522.6 $ 56,572.8 $ 51,106.7 Earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of changes in accounting $ 1,244.7 $ 1,108.3 $ 1,517.2 $ 1,376.9 $ 1,153.5 Loss from discontinued operations (5) (244.6 ) (57.6 ) (4.2 ) (1.8 ) (12.7 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting (6) (7) (38.5 ) (70.1 ) Net earnings $ 1,000.1 $ 1,050.7 $ 1,474.5 $ 1,375.1 $ 1,070.7 Basic earnings per Common Share Continuing operations $ 2.96 $ 2.57 $ 3.49 $ 3.09 $ 2.56 Discontinued operations (5) (0.58 ) (0.13 ) (0.01 ) (0.01 ) (0.03 ) Cumulative effect of changes inaccounting (6) (7) (0.09 ) (0.16 ) Net basic earnings per Common Share $ 2.38 $ 2.44 $ 3.39 $ 3.08 $ 2.37 Diluted earnings per Common Share Continuing operations $ 2.90 $ 2.54 $ 3.45 $ 3.04 $ 2.51 Discontinued operations (5) (0.57 ) (0.13 ) (0.01 ) (0.01 ) (0.03 ) Cumulative effect of changes in accounting (6) (7) (0.09 ) (0.15 ) Net diluted earnings per Common Share $ 2.33 $ 2.41 $ 3.35 $ 3.03 $ 2.33 Cash dividends declared per Common Share (8) $ 0.270 $ 0.150 $ 0.120 $ 0.105 $ 0.100 Balance Sheet Data: Total assets (9) $ 23,374.1 $ 21,838.2 $ 21,049.3 $ 18,155.4 $ 15,866.3 Long term obligations, less current portion and other short term borrowings $ 2,599.7 $ 2,319.9 $ 2,834.7 $ 2,471.9 $ 2,207.0 Shareholders equity $ 8,490.7 $ 8,593.0 $ 7,976.3 $ 7,674.5 $ 6,351.7 30 Table of Contents (1) Amounts reflect business combinations and the impact of special items in all periods presented. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of special items affecting fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. Fiscal 2003 amounts reflect the impact of special items of $38.8 million ($32.5 million, net of tax). Fiscal 2002 amounts reflect the impact of special items of $116.6 million ($73.7 million, net of tax). (2) Subsequent to the filing of the 2004 Form 10 K, certain errors were identified related to the restatement adjustments previously recorded in the 2004 Form 10 K within fiscal years 2003 through 2000. The impact of these errors was immaterial for all periods presented. See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements within the 2005 Form 10 K. (3) During fiscal 2002, the Company recognized a benefit of approximately $23 million as a result of changes in the last in, first out (LIFO) calculation with respect to generic products in order to more accurately reflect inflationary indices. The Company determined that the cumulative effect of the change in LIFO methods was non determinable due to the unavailability of historical information needed to calculate the effect. Therefore, in accordance with Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 20, the Company did not record the adjustment as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. (4) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, applying the modified prospective method. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for equity based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations, and equity based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure within the notes to the financial statements. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (5) During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company committed to plans to sell a significant portion of its Healthcare Marketing Services business and its United Kingdom based Intercare Pharmaceutical Distribution business, thereby meeting the held for sale criteria set forth in SFAS No. 144. During the three months ended September 30, 2005, the Company decided to discontinue its sterile pharmaceutical manufacturing business in Humacao, Puerto Rico, thereby meeting the criteria for classification of discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144 and Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03 13, Applying the Conditions in Paragraph 42 of FASB Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in Determining Whether to Report Discontinued Operations. In addition, on January 1, 2003, the Company acquired Syncor. Prior to the acquisition, Syncor had announced the discontinuation of certain operations including the medical imaging business and certain overseas operations. The Company proceeded with the discontinuation of these operations and included additional international and non core domestic businesses to the discontinued operations. The Company sold substantially all of the Syncor related discontinued operations prior to the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2005. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, see Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (6) Effective at the beginning of fiscal 2004, the Company changed its method of recognizing cash discounts from recognizing cash discounts as a reduction of costs of products sold primarily upon payment of vendor invoices to recording cash discounts as a component of inventory cost and recognizing such discounts as a reduction of cost of products sold upon sale of inventory. For more information regarding the change in accounting, see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (7) In the first quarter of fiscal 2002, the method of recognizing revenue for pharmacy automation equipment was changed from recognizing revenue when the units are delivered to the customer to recognizing revenue when the units are installed at the customer site. (8) Cash dividends per Common Share exclude dividends paid by all entities with which subsidiaries of the Company have merged. (9) In fiscal 2006, the Company discovered that the netting of current deferred tax assets and liabilities and long term deferred tax assets and liabilities was not consistently reflected on the balance sheet, resulting in an inconsistent classification between the balance sheet and the tax footnote disclosure. The total assets presented in fiscal 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 include reclassifications to reflect the proper netting of current deferred tax assets and liabilities and long term deferred tax assets and liabilities. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 31 Table of Contents Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis presented below refers to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10 K. OVERVIEW Cardinal Health is a leading provider of products and services supporting the healthcare industry. The Company helps healthcare providers and manufacturers improve the productivity and safety of healthcare. For further information regarding the Companys business, see Item 1 Business within this Form 10 K. Results of Operations The following summarizes the Companys results of operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (in millions, except per Common Share amounts) Growth (1) Results of Operations Years ended June 30, 2006 2005 2006 2005 2004 Revenue 10 % 15 % $ 81,363.6 $ 74,271.6 $ 64,522.6 Operating earnings 8 % (22 )% $ 1,966.7 $ 1,824.3 $ 2,330.7 Earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting 12 % (27 )% $ 1,244.7 $ 1,108.3 $ 1,517.2 Net earnings (5 )% (29 )% $ 1,000.1 $ 1,050.7 $ 1,474.5 Net diluted earnings per Common Share (3 )% (28 )% $ 2.33 $ 2.41 $ 3.35 (1) Growth is calculated as change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to immediately preceding year. Growing demand for the Companys diversified products and services in fiscal 2006 led to record revenue of approximately $81.4 billion, a 10% increase from fiscal 2005. The Companys operating earnings increased 8% to nearly $2.0 billion and diluted earnings per Common Share from continuing operations increased 14% to $2.90. The Company placed significant emphasis on improving operating margins, which increased in each reportable segment from the first half to the second half of the fiscal year. Reportable Segments The Companys operations are organized into four reportable segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services; Medical Products and Services; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services; and Clinical Technologies and Services. See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of changes to business segments during fiscal 2006. Effective for the first quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2007, the Company will report financial information for the following five reportable segments: Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical; Supply Chain Services Medical; Medical Products Manufacturing; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services; and Clinical Technologies and Services. Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services Performance During fiscal 2006, the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment revenue increased 11%, primarily from revenue from bulk customers. Operating earnings within this segment were flat due to the positive impact of signed distribution service agreements and earnings from generic products, offset by decreased selling margins resulting from competitive pressures and a charge of $31.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting credits owed to certain vendors. During fiscal 2006, this segment completed its transition to a fee for service business model, as described below under Pharmaceutical Distribution Business Model Transition. With the transition to the fee for service business model completed, the segments operating earnings were more evenly distributed throughout the fiscal year, moderating the historical earnings seasonality. Going forward, this transition will continue to result in less earnings volatility within this segment. 32 Table of Contents Medical Products and Services Performance Revenue and operating earnings within the Medical Products and Services segment increased 2% and 4%, respectively, during fiscal 2006. However, these growth rates were adversely impacted by the loss of the Specialty Distribution business largest customer at the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2006. Revenue and operating earnings growth rates were lowered by approximately 2 percentage points and 1 percentage point, respectively, during fiscal 2006 due to the loss of this customer and the ultimate sale of a significant portion of this business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. The segments operating earnings growth resulted primarily from the favorable year over year comparison from the prior year latex litigation charge, favorable product mix and manufacturing cost reductions. Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services Performance During fiscal 2006, the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment revenue increased 4% due to increased demand for certain proprietary and oral drug delivery formulations, improved terms with existing customers and increased volume on certain sterile products and a significant one time payment from an ongoing customer. Operating earnings decreased 3% within this segment due to the impact of competitive pressures and pricing within the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business and the stronger U.S. dollar during fiscal 2006. Clinical Technologies and Services Performance During fiscal 2006, the Clinical Technologies and Services segment revenue increased 11% due to increased demand for the segments core products within both the Alaris and Pyxis businesses and the introduction of new products. In addition to the strong revenue growth noted above, this segments operating earnings increased 56% due to favorable product mix and manufacturing efficiencies and integration synergies from the acquisition of Alaris. Pharmaceutical Distribution Business Model Transition The Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business began a business model transition in fiscal 2003 regarding the manner in which it was compensated for the services that it provides to branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. Historically, Pharmaceutical Distribution was compensated by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers in the form of price inflation. Specifically, a significant portion of the compensation Pharmaceutical Distribution received from such manufacturers was derived from the Companys ability to purchase pharmaceutical inventory in advance of price increases, hold that inventory as manufacturers increased prices, and generate a higher gross margin on the subsequent sale of that inventory. Beginning in fiscal 2003, branded pharmaceutical manufacturers began to seek greater control over the amount of product available in the supply chain and, as a result, began to change their sales practices by restricting the volume of product available for purchase by wholesalers. In addition, manufacturers sought additional services from the Company, including providing data concerning product sales and distribution patterns. The Company believes that manufacturers sought these changes to provide them with greater visibility over product demand and movement in the market and to increase product safety and integrity by reducing the risks associated with product being available to, and distributed in, the secondary market. These changes significantly reduced the compensation (as a percentage of revenue) received by the Company from branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. In response to these developments, the Company established a compensation system with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers that is significantly less dependent on manufacturers pricing practices, and is based on the services provided by the Company to meet the unique distribution requirements of each manufacturers products. During fiscal 2005, the Company worked with individual branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to define fee for service terms that compensate the Company based on the services being provided to such manufacturers. This transition was completed during fiscal 2006. These new arrangements have moderated the seasonality of earnings which have historically reflected the pattern of manufacturers price increases. 33 Table of Contents Under the fee for service arrangements, reflected in written distribution service agreements, the Companys compensation for these services may be a fee or a fee plus an inflation based compensation component. In certain instances, the Company must achieve certain performance criteria to receive the maximum fees under the agreement. The fee is typically a fixed percentage of the Companys purchases or the Companys sales of the manufacturers products to customers. Apart from its fee for service arrangements reflected in distribution service agreements, the Company also continues to be compensated by some branded manufacturers based solely on price inflation. If the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price inflation slows, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The distribution service agreements between the Company and certain branded pharmaceutical manufacturers generally range from a one year term with an automatic renewal feature to a five year term. These agreements generally cannot be terminated unless mutually agreed to by the parties, a breach of the agreement occurs that is not cured, or in the event of a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate without cause within a defined notice period. Adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and Equity Based Compensation Expense During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, applying the modified prospective method. SFAS No. 123(R) requires all equity based payments to employees, including grants of employee options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for equity based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations, and equity based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure within the notes to the financial statements. In anticipation of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company did not modify the terms of any previously granted options. The Company made significant changes to its equity compensation program with its annual equity grant in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, including reducing the overall number of options granted and utilizing a mix of restricted share and option awards. The Company also moved from three year cliff vesting to installment vesting over four years for annual employee option awards and shortened the option term from ten to seven years. Total Company operating earnings for fiscal 2006 were adversely affected by the impact of equity based compensation due to the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) and the impact of stock appreciation rights granted to the Companys then Chairman and Chief Executive Officer during the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The Company recorded $237.3 million for equity based compensation during fiscal 2006 compared to $10.1 million in fiscal 2005. Beyond the current fiscal year, the Company expects the equity based compensation expense to decline year over year due primarily to the significant changes made to the Companys equity compensation program, including a reduction in the overall number of options granted. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Global Restructuring Program As previously reported, during fiscal 2005, the Company launched a global restructuring program in connection with its One Cardinal Health initiative with the goal of increasing the value the Company provides its customers through better integration of existing businesses and improved efficiency from a more disciplined approach to procurement and resource allocation. The Company expects the program to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2008 and to improve operating earnings and position the Company for future growth. The global restructuring program is being implemented in two phases. The first phase of the program, which was announced in December 2004, focuses on business consolidations and process improvements, including 34 Table of Contents rationalizing the Companys facilities worldwide, reducing the Companys global workforce, and rationalizing and discontinuing overlapping and under performing product lines. The second phase of the program, which was announced in August 2005, focuses on longer term integration activities that will enhance service to customers through improved integration across the Companys segments and continue to streamline internal operations. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the restructuring costs incurred by the Company during fiscal 2006 and 2005 related to both phases of the global restructuring program. Acquisitions During fiscal 2006, the Company completed acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $364 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $149 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations as of the date of acquisition. On June 28, 2004, the Company acquired approximately 98.7% of the outstanding common stock of Alaris, a provider of intravenous medication safety products and services. On July 7, 2004, Alaris merged with a subsidiary of the Company to complete the transaction. The value of the transaction, including the assumption of Alaris debt, totaled approximately $2.1 billion. For further information regarding the Alaris acquisition and the valuation of the acquisitions intangibles, see Notes 2 and 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. During December 2003, the Company completed its acquisition of Intercare, a European pharmaceutical products and services company. The cash transaction was valued at approximately $570 million, including the assumption of approximately $150 million in Intercare debt. During fiscal 2006, the United Kingdom based Intercare Pharmaceutical Distribution business was classified as discontinued operations. See Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, in addition to the acquisitions of Alaris and Intercare, the Company completed several other acquisitions, including Geodax, ParMed, Denver Biomedical and Dohmen as well as the acquisition of the remaining shares of the Source Medical joint venture. The Companys trend with regard to acquisitions has been to expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry. This trend has resulted in expansion into areas that complement the Companys existing operations and provide opportunities for the Company to develop synergies with, and strengthen, the acquired business. As the healthcare industry continues to change, the Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry through all its reportable segments. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to successfully take advantage of any such opportunity if and when they arise or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are pursued or consummated, the Company would incur additional merger related costs, and may need to enter into funding arrangements for such mergers or acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful. Government Investigations The Company is currently the subject of a formal investigation by the SEC relating to certain accounting and financial reporting matters, and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York is conducting an inquiry with respect to the Company. The Company continues to engage in settlement discussions with the staff of the SEC and has reached an agreement in principle on the basic terms of a potential settlement involving the Company that the SEC staff has indicated it is prepared to recommend to the Commission. The proposed settlement is subject to the completion of definitive documentation as well as acceptance and authorization by the Commission and would, among other things, require the Company to pay a $35 million penalty. The Company accordingly recorded a reserve of $10 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 in addition to the $25 million reserve recorded during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. There can be no assurance that the Companys efforts to resolve the SECs investigation with respect to the Company will be successful, or that the amount reserved will be sufficient, and the Company cannot predict the timing or the final terms of any settlement. For further information regarding these matters see Item 3 Legal Proceedings and Notes 9 and 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 35 Table of Contents Shareholder Litigation The Company is subject to several class action lawsuits brought against the Company and certain of its former and present officers and directors since July 2004. The Company is currently unable to predict or determine the outcome or resolution of these proceedings, or to estimate the amounts of, or potential range of, loss with respect to these proceedings. The range of possible resolutions of these proceedings could include judgments against the Company or settlements that could require substantial payments by the Company. These payments could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. The Company discusses these cases and other litigation to which it is a party in greater detail under Item 3 Legal Proceedings and in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following sections discuss the results of operations of the Company and its reportable segments. Revenue Revenue for the Company and its reportable segments are as follows: For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (1) (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services (PDPS) (2) (3) Revenue from Non Bulk Customers $ 37,228.7 $ 36,379.4 $ 34,143.7 Revenue from Bulk Customers 29,872.0 24,084.4 18,009.0 Total PDPS 67,100.7 60,463.8 52,152.7 Medical Products and Services 10,013.8 9,824.0 9,143.5 Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services (4) 2,826.4 2,716.7 2,454.7 Clinical Technologies and Services 2,430.3 2,189.3 1,550.6 Corporate (5) (1,007.6 ) (922.2 ) (778.9 ) Total Company Revenue $ 81,363.6 $ 74,271.6 $ 64,522.6 (1) See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of changes to business segments during fiscal 2006. (2) The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment amounts were adjusted to reflect the classification of its United Kingdom based Intercare Pharmaceutical Distribution business as discontinued operations. Prior period amounts were adjusted to reflect these changes in classification. See Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations. (3) Bulk customers consist of customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. Non bulk customers include retail stores, hospitals, alternate care sites and other customers not specifically classified as bulk customers. Most deliveries to bulk customers consist of product shipped in the same form as received from the manufacturer. See discussion below within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services section for the Companys description of revenue from bulk customers. (4) The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment amounts were adjusted to reflect the classification of its sterile pharmaceutical manufacturing business in Humacao, Puerto Rico and a significant portion of its Healthcare Marketing Services business as discontinued operations. Prior period amounts were adjusted to reflect these changes in classification. See Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations. (5) Corporate revenue consists of the elimination of intersegment revenue for all periods presented and foreign currency translation adjustments in fiscal 2004. 36 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the revenue growth rates for the Company and its reportable segments, as well as the percent of Company revenue, excluding Corporate, each segment represents: Growth (1) Percent ofCompany Revenue Years ended June 30, 2006 2005 2006 2005 2004 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services 11 % 16 % 82 % 80 % 80 % Medical Products and Services 2 % 7 % 12 % 13 % 14 % Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 4 % 11 % 3 % 4 % 4 % Clinical Technologies and Services 11 % 41 % 3 % 3 % 2 % Total Company 10 % 15 % 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Growth is calculated as change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to immediately preceding year. Total Company. Total Company revenue increased 10% and 15%, respectively, during fiscal 2006 and 2005. The revenue growth in fiscal 2006 resulted from the following: increased revenue within each of the Companys four reportable segments, including revenue growth of 11% within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment, driven primarily by growth in revenue from bulk customers and 11% within the Clinical Technologies and Services segment, driven primarily by revenue growth within the Pyxis and Alaris products businesses; pharmaceutical price increases within its Pharmaceutical Distribution business averaging approximately 5.6% during fiscal 2006; the addition of new customers; and the addition of new products. These increases were partially offset by slower revenue growth within the Medical Products and Services segment due to the loss of the Specialty Distribution business largest customer at the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and the ultimate sale of a significant portion of this business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. In addition, the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment was adversely impacted by competitive pressures and pricing within the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business. The revenue growth in fiscal 2005 resulted from the following: revenue growth from existing customers; the addition of new customers; the addition of new products; pharmaceutical price increases within its Pharmaceutical Distribution business averaging approximately 4.9% during fiscal 2005; and the year over year impact of acquisitions. These increases during fiscal 2005 were partially offset by slower revenue growth within the Medical Products and Services and Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments and a decline in revenue from Pyxis products within the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segments revenue increased 11% during fiscal 2006. The most significant growth was in revenue from bulk customers (described below), which increased approximately 24% during fiscal 2006. In addition, pharmaceutical price increases for the trailing twelve month period of approximately 5.6% contributed to the revenue growth in this segment. 37 Table of Contents The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment differentiates between bulk and non bulk customers because bulk customers generate lower margins than non bulk customers. Bulk customers consist of customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. Non bulk customers include retail stores, hospitals, alternate care sites and other customers not specifically classified as bulk customers. Most deliveries to bulk customers consist of product shipped in the same form as the product is received from the manufacturer. Bulk customers have the ability to process large quantities of products in central locations and self distribute these products to their individual retail stores or customers. Non bulk customers, on the other hand, require more complex servicing. These services include receiving inventory in large or full case quantities and breaking it down into smaller quantities, warehousing the product for a longer period of time, picking individual products specific to a customers order and delivering that smaller order to a customer location. Bulk customers generate lower margins than non bulk customers because of lower customer pricing and lower vendor margins. Both bulk and non bulk customers generate vendor margins, but such margins for bulk customers are lower due to the impact of product mix. Lower customer pricing and vendor margins for bulk customers, however, are partially offset by the lower cost of servicing bulk customers. As noted above, deliveries to bulk customers have lower servicing costs related to warehousing and handling than deliveries to non bulk customers. See the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segments Operating Earnings discussion below for the significant items impacting margin within this segment. Revenue from bulk customers for fiscal 2006 was $29.9 billion compared to $24.1 billion in fiscal 2005. The increase in revenue from bulk customers primarily relates to additional volume from existing large retail chain customers and market growth with customers in the mail order business. The increase from existing customers is primarily due to certain customers deciding to purchase from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segments revenue growth of 16% in fiscal 2005 resulted from strong sales to customers within this segments core Pharmaceutical Distribution business. The most significant growth was in revenue from bulk customers, which increased approximately 34%. The increase in revenue from bulk customers primarily relates to additional volume from existing and new customers as well as market growth within the mail order business. The increase from existing customers is primarily due to certain customers purchasing from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer. In addition, pharmaceutical price increases for the trailing twelve month period of approximately 4.9% contributed to the revenue growth in this segment. However, the rate of price increases was lower than the rate experienced over the prior fiscal year. Medical Products and Services. The Medical Products and Services segments revenue growth of 2% during fiscal 2006 resulted primarily from the following: revenue growth within the segments manufactured gloves and respiratory product lines primarily due to new customer accounts and new products; revenue growth within the segments distribution business primarily due to new customer accounts and increased volume from existing customers; and international revenue growth due to new customers, primarily in Canada. The Specialty Distribution business largest customer began self distribution on January 1, 2006 which significantly impacted revenue growth during the second half of fiscal 2006. Revenue growth was lowered by approximately 2 percentage points during fiscal 2006 within this segment primarily due to the loss of this customer. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company completed the sale of a significant portion of the Specialty Distribution business to Oncology Therapeutics Network, a wholly owned subsidiary of Oncology Holdings, Inc. Oncology Therapeutics Network, a specialty pharmaceutical services company, acquired the Companys oncology distribution capabilities and the Company will maintain a minority ownership in Oncology Holdings, Inc. In addition, revenue growth was adversely impacted by foreign exchange rates due to the stronger U.S. dollar. 38 Table of Contents The Medical Products and Services revenue growth of 7% in fiscal 2005 resulted primarily from the following: increased volume to existing customer accounts; new contracts signed during fiscal 2004 within the medical surgical distribution business; strong international growth, especially in Canada and Europe; favorable foreign exchange rates; increased revenue of approximately 11% within the Specialty Distribution business due to increased revenue from the business largest customer and growth of the existing customer base; and growth of 6% in the medical surgical distribution business, primarily from increased sales to hospital supply and ambulatory care customers. The segments revenue growth in fiscal 2005 was adversely affected by slower growth in the sale of self manufactured products, and the loss of certain business from customers within a GPO. Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments revenue growth of 4% during fiscal 2006 resulted primarily from the following: increased demand for certain proprietary and oral drug delivery formulations; improved terms with existing customers and increased volume on certain sterile products; and a payment of approximately $14.0 million from an ongoing customer within the Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business for commitments through December 31, 2005 and for the cancellation of a future commitment. The segments revenue growth was adversely affected by the competitive pressures and pricing within the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business and the stronger U.S. dollar adversely impacting revenue growth by approximately 1 percentage point. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments revenue growth of 11% in fiscal 2005 resulted primarily from strong demand for certain softgel products, the impact of acquisitions, primarily Intercare and the acquisition of Geodax within the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business, and the impact of foreign exchange rates. Revenue growth was offset by certain operational issues as noted below. The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures within this segment accounted for approximately 5% of the revenue growth in fiscal 2005. Revenue in fiscal 2005 increased by approximately 2% as a result of the impact of foreign exchange rates. This impact takes into consideration the fiscal 2005 rate fluctuations due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar and the fiscal 2004 constant rate adjustment (see footnote 6 to the table in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion as it relates to fiscal 2004 constant rate adjustment). The segments growth was adversely affected by delays in opening new facilities and existing facilities operating below planned capacity within the Companys Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business. Clinical Technologies and Services. The Clinical Technologies and Services segments revenue growth of 11% during fiscal 2006 resulted primarily from revenue growth within the Pyxis and Alaris products businesses. Pyxis products revenue increased approximately 15% due to higher unit sales resulting from increased demand for the Medstation&reg; 3000 product and improvements within the sales and installation cycles. Alaris products revenue increased approximately 19% during fiscal 2006 due to competitive displacements driven by technological advantages and sales obtained through the Companys other relationships. In addition, Alaris revenue increased due to the continued demand for its core products and the introduction of new products into the market. These strong revenue increases were tempered by revenue growth of 5% during fiscal 2006 within the clinical services and consulting businesses. 39 Table of Contents The Clinical Technologies and Services revenue growth of 41% in fiscal 2005 resulted from the impact of the acquisition of Alaris. Alaris results of operations were not included in the prior period amounts. Strong revenue growth within the clinical services and consulting businesses was offset by significant revenue declines within the Pyxis products business. The Pyxis products business experienced a revenue decline of approximately 17% in fiscal 2005 due to the following: a lengthened sales and installation cycle; the delayed introduction of Pyxis MedStation&reg; 3000; increased competition within the industry; and the impact from the Audit Committees internal review, as more fully described in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which created execution issues as the efforts and attention of certain sales and installation teams were diverted from ordinary business operations. Operating Earnings Operating earnings for the Company and its reportable segments are as follows: For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (1) (2) (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services (3) $ 996.8 $ 997.1 $ 1,046.5 Medical Products and Services 646.8 620.4 661.7 Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services (4) 304.7 313.9 417.8 Clinical Technologies and Services 384.2 245.6 322.8 Corporate (5) (6) (365.8 ) (352.7 ) (118.1 ) Total Company Operating Earnings $ 1,966.7 $ 1,824.3 $ 2,330.7 (1) See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of changes to business segments during fiscal 2006. (2) During the three months ended September 30, 2005, the Company changed its methodology for allocating corporate costs to the reportable segments to better align corporate spending with the segments that receive the related benefits. Prior period results were adjusted to reflect this change in methodology. (3) The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment amounts were adjusted to reflect the classification of its United Kingdom based Intercare Pharmaceutical Distribution business as discontinued operations. Prior period amounts were adjusted to reflect this change in classification. See Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations. (4) The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment amounts were adjusted to reflect the classification of its sterile pharmaceutical manufacturing business in Humacao, Puerto Rico and a significant portion of its Healthcare Marketing Services business as discontinued operations. Prior period amounts were adjusted to reflect this change in classification. See Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations. (5) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) applying the modified prospective method. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for equity based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations, and equity based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure within the notes to the financial statements. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (6) Corporate operating earnings primarily include special items, equity based compensation, impairment charges and other, investment spending and other unallocated corporate expenses. See footnote 6 to the table in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of Corporate operating earnings. 40 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the operating earnings growth rates for the Company and its reportable segments, as well as the percent of Company operating earnings, excluding Corporate, each segment represents: Growth (1) Percent of Company Operating Earnings Years ended June 30, 2006 2005 2006 2005 2004 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services (5 )% 43 % 46 % 43 % Medical Products and Services 4 % (6 )% 28 % 29 % 27 % Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services (3 )% (25 )% 13 % 14 % 17 % Clinical Technologies and Services 56 % (24 )% 16 % 11 % 13 % Total Company (2) 8 % (22 )% 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Growth is calculated as change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to immediately preceding year. (2) The Companys overall operating earnings growth of 8% and (22)%, respectively, in fiscal 2006 and 2005 includes the effect of special items, equity based compensation and impairment charges and other. Special items, equity based compensation and impairment charges and other are not allocated to the segments. See Notes 2, 13 and 20 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Companys special items, equity based compensation and impairment charges and other. Total Company. Total Company operating earnings increased 8% during fiscal 2006 due to operating earnings growth in the Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products and Services segments and the favorable year over year impact of special items and impairment charges and other, which were partially offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses as discussed below. See Notes 2 and 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding special items and impairment charges and other. Total Company operating earnings increased 8% during fiscal 2006 as a result of the following factors affecting the Companys reportable segments: Clinical Technologies and Services segment operating earnings increased 56% due to strong revenue growth, favorable product mix and manufacturing efficiencies and integration synergies from the Alaris acquisition; Medical Products and Services segment operating earnings were impacted by the favorable year over year impact of the latex litigation charge, favorable product mix and cost reductions which were partially offset by the loss of the Specialty Distribution business largest customer at the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2006; Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment operating earnings were flat due to the positive impact of signed distribution service agreements and earnings from generic products, offset by competitive pressures impacting selling margin and a charge of $31.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting credits owed to certain vendors; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment operating earnings were adversely impacted by competitive pressures and pricing within the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business and the stronger U.S. dollar during fiscal 2006; and increased selling, general and administrative expenses allocated to each of the reportable segments. Total Company selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% during fiscal 2006 due in part to the impact of equity based compensation, which represented 8 percentage points of the total increase. The Company recorded $237.3 million for equity based compensation during fiscal 2006 compared to $10.1 million in the comparable prior year periods. See the Overview section above and Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated 41 Table of Contents Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. In addition, operating earnings during fiscal 2006 were adversely impacted by the following: increased incentive compensation expense of approximately $38.2 million due to improved operating performance; incremental selling, general and administrative expenses associated with the One Cardinal Health initiative to streamline the Companys operations and develop new capabilities in shared services, which are expected to favorably impact costs across the Company in the future; and increased legal expenses. The Company expects selling, general and administrative expenses to grow at a slower rate in fiscal 2007 due in part to the significant changes made to the Companys equity compensation program resulting in reductions in equity based compensation, benefits received from the upfront investments related to the One Cardinal Health initiative and disciplined expense control. Total Company operating earnings decreased 22% during fiscal 2005 as a result of declining operating earnings in each of the Companys reportable segments. The Companys gross margins were dampened primarily by the following: the Pharmaceutical Distribution business was impacted by reduced branded vendor margins driven primarily by changes in branded pharmaceutical manufacturers sales and pricing practices (see the Overview section for further discussion) and competitive pricing; the Medical Products and Services segment was impacted by an increased mix of lower margin distribution business, competitive pricing and increased raw material and fuel costs; the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment was impacted by continued operational issues adversely affecting manufacturing efficiencies within; and the Clinical Technologies and Services segment was impacted by a lengthened sales and installation cycle, new product launch delays and increased competition within the Pyxis products business. Total Company operating earnings were also adversely affected by the unfavorable impact related to special items of $218.0 million in fiscal 2005. These increased costs related to the Companys global restructuring program associated with its One Cardinal Health initiative, the SEC investigation and Audit Committee internal review and related matters, and the integration of certain acquisitions, which were partially offset by settlements received in antitrust and vitamin litigation (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). In addition, the Company recorded $113.7 million for asset impairments during fiscal 2005 (see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). Total Company operating earnings for fiscal 2005 were impacted by the favorable impact of approximately $31.7 million from reductions in the LIFO reserve, primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories, lower inventory levels and lower price increases related to branded pharmaceutical inventories. Total Company operating earnings for fiscal 2005 were also impacted by the unfavorable impact of the following: an increase in profit sharing expense of approximately $38.8 million compared to fiscal 2004; an increase in incentive compensation expense of approximately $37.0 million compared to fiscal 2004; expenses of approximately $28.2 million within the Medical Products and Services segment related to the estimated costs of defending or settling outstanding claims as well as pursuing insurance recoveries related to the latex litigation; purchase accounting adjustments related to the Alaris acquisition, which included an inventory valuation adjustment to fair value, and the adjusted, higher cost inventory being sold, adversely affecting gross margins by approximately $23.6 million; 42 Table of Contents product line rationalization and inventory and accounts receivable reserve adjustments within the Pyxis products business of approximately $30.3 million; an increase in inventory reserves within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment of approximately $14.7 million related to a generic manufacturers bankruptcy and $10.0 million related to slow moving inventory; and an increase in audit and audit related fees of approximately $7.5 million compared to fiscal 2004 due to increased costs associated with complying with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, expanded audit procedures and a revision in the allocation of audit and audit related fees to fiscal periods. Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segments operating earnings were flat in fiscal 2006. Operating earnings during fiscal 2006 include a LIFO reserve reduction of approximately $26.0 million primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories. Operating earnings during fiscal 2006 benefited from the following: the segments revenue growth of 11% during fiscal 2006; the year over year positive impact of signed distribution service agreements; strong earnings from generic products; strong branded inflation within the portion of the segments business that remains contingent on price increases; and the addition of new vendors to the segments National Logistics Center. These benefits were offset by competitive pressures impacting selling margin, the correction of an error, as described in detail below, and a reserve of $10.0 million related to excess inventory from a particular pharmaceutical manufacturer. During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company discovered that it had inadvertently and erroneously failed to process credits owed to a vendor in prior years. After a thorough review, the Company determined that it had failed to process similar credits for a limited number of additional vendors. These processing failures, specific to a limited area of vendor credits, resulted from system programming, interface and data entry errors relating to these vendor credits which occurred over a period of years. As a result, the Company recorded a charge of $31.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting the credits owed to these vendors. Of this charge, approximately $14.2 million related to fiscal 2005, approximately $11.3 million related to fiscal 2004 and approximately $6.3 million related to fiscal 2003 and prior. In connection with this matter, the Company implemented an action plan that has addressed the issues related to the error. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services operating earnings decreased 5% during fiscal 2005 primarily as a result of reduced branded vendor margins resulting from changes in branded pharmaceutical manufacturers sales and pricing practices, as discussed above in the Overview section, and competitive pricing pressures. Branded pharmaceutical manufacturers had changed their sales practices by restricting product available for purchase by pharmaceutical wholesalers. In addition, branded manufacturers product pricing practices were less predictable, as the frequency of price increases slowed and the amounts decreased versus historical levels. For fiscal 2005, pharmaceutical price increases for the trailing twelve month period were approximately 4.9% compared to 6.2% in fiscal 2004. In addition, operating earnings during fiscal 2005 were adversely impacted by approximately $14.7 million for inventory reserves related to a generic manufacturers bankruptcy, approximately $10.0 million related to slow moving inventory reserves and approximately $7.8 million as a result of inventory rationalization of certain health and beauty care products. The decrease in this segments operating earnings was partially offset by $31.7 million from reductions in the LIFO reserve primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories, lower inventory levels and lower price increases related to branded pharmaceutical inventories. 43 Table of Contents Operating earnings were also impacted by improved margins from generic products and expense control within the Pharmaceutical Distribution business which resulted in lowering selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. Medical Products and Services. The Medical Products and Services segments operating earnings increased 4% during fiscal 2006 primarily due to the following: favorable year over year comparison resulting from a $28.2 million latex litigation charge taken during fiscal 2005; revenue growth of 2% during fiscal 2006; favorable product mix within the distribution business from private label and branded products; manufacturing cost reductions; expense control, partially related to the Companys global restructuring program; and strong international earnings growth in Canada. The Medical Products and Services segments operating earnings were adversely impacted by increased selling, general and administrative expenses allocated to the segment. In addition, the Specialty Distribution business largest customer began self distribution on January 1, 2006, which impacted operating earnings growth during the second half of fiscal 2006. Operating earnings were negatively impacted by approximately 1 percentage point during fiscal 2006 within this segment primarily due to the loss of this customer. The Medical Products and Services segments operating earnings decreased 6% during fiscal 2005 primarily due to the following: pricing pressures related to self manufactured products; increased raw material and fuel costs; increased mix of lower margin distributed products; competitive pricing on a large GPO contract for convertors products; and adjustments of approximately $28.2 million for the estimated costs of defending or settling outstanding claims as well as pursuing insurance recoveries related to the latex litigation. Selling, general and administrative expenses grew 11% during fiscal 2005 primarily due to the charge for latex litigation described above and higher personnel costs associated with the overall business growth. These items were partially offset by revenue growth of 7%, manufacturing efficiencies, expense control related to the Companys global restructuring program and incremental operating earnings from new customers. Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments operating earnings decreased 3% during fiscal 2006 primarily due to the following: the impact of competitive pressures and pricing within the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business; increased selling, general and administrative expenses allocated to the segment; the stronger U.S. dollar adversely impacting operating earnings growth by approximately 2 percentage points; and the sterile manufacturing business operating below optimum capacity which was offset by improved customer terms for services and a $14.0 million payment from an ongoing customer for commitments through December 31, 2005 and for the cancellation of a future commitment. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments operating earnings decreased 25% during fiscal 2005 primarily due to the continued delays in opening new facilities and existing facilities operating below optimum capacity within the Companys Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business. Operating earnings were also adversely impacted by approximately $8.0 million related to the write down of inventory within the Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business. 44 Table of Contents The operating earnings declines were partially offset by the strength of certain softgel and controlled release products, and the year over year impact of acquisitions of approximately 6%. The impact of foreign exchange rates on operating earnings did not significantly affect the fiscal 2005 growth rates above. This takes into consideration the fiscal 2005 rate fluctuations due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar and the fiscal 2004 constant rate adjustment. See footnote 6 to the table in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion as it relates to the fiscal 2004 constant rate adjustment and the change made in fiscal 2005. Clinical Technologies and Services. The Clinical Technologies and Services segments operating earnings increased 56% during fiscal 2006 primarily due to the following: revenue growth of 11% during fiscal 2006; higher margins due to favorable year over year sales mix; favorable manufacturing efficiencies; improvements in the sales and installation cycles; integration synergies from the Alaris acquisition; and favorable accounts receivable reserve adjustments of $8.0 million recorded during the third quarter of fiscal 2006 due to improved credit and collection processes and historical write off trends. Charges of $23.6 million during fiscal 2005 related to purchase accounting adjustments from the Alaris transaction also contributed to the favorable year over year comparison. The $23.6 million charge represented 14 percentage points of the fiscal 2006 operating earnings increase. The purchase accounting adjustments during fiscal 2005 included an inventory valuation adjustment to fair value, with the adjusted, higher cost inventory being sold during the first two quarters. The Clinical Technologies and Services segments operating earnings decreased 24% during fiscal 2005 primarily from decreased operating earnings within the Pyxis products business which was impacted by: decreased revenue of 17% for fiscal 2005; lower unit margins due to year over year sales mix; more aggressive price discounting in the market place; a product line rationalization and inventory and accounts receivable reserve adjustments of approximately $30.3 million; and the positive segment allocation adjustments recorded during fiscal 2004 of $21 million for the estimated interest income that the business would have earned from assets sold as part of the leased asset portfolio sales (the proceeds from the sales were returned to Corporate for general corporate requirements). See footnote 6 to the table in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion as it relates to the fiscal 2004 interest income allocation and the change made in fiscal 2005. The Alaris acquisition improved operating earnings for this segment by approximately 23% for fiscal 2005. The results of operations from this acquisition are not included in the prior period amounts. Operating results from Alaris, while incremental to the segments results year over year, were adversely impacted by the effect of purchase accounting adjustments recorded during the first two quarters of fiscal 2005. These adjustments included the inventory valuation adjustment noted above, which adversely affected gross margins by approximately $23.6 million. Impairment Charges and Other See Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding impairment charges and other. 45 Table of Contents Special Items The following is a summary of the Companys special items: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Restructuring costs $ 60.7 $ 159.4 $ 35.7 Merger related costs 26.5 46.4 43.9 Litigation settlements, net (19.0 ) (42.3 ) (62.3 ) Other 26.5 54.5 37.9 Total special items $ 94.7 $ 218.0 $ 55.2 See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detail of the Companys special items during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other increased $1.7 million during fiscal 2006. Interest expense was relatively constant for fiscal 2006 as compared to the prior year. Interest expense and other increased $23.2 million during fiscal 2005 primarily from increased interest expense of $55.0 million due to increased borrowing levels and interest rates. The Company manages its exposure to interest rates using various hedging strategies (see Notes 1 and 5 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The $55.0 million increase in interest expense during fiscal 2005 was partially offset by the Company recording the minority interest impact of approximately $19.4 million for certain impairment charges within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments Oral Technologies business. These impairment charges were recorded within impairment charges and other on the consolidated statements of earnings during fiscal 2005. See Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding impairment charges and other. Provision for Income Taxes The provisions for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of change in accounting were 32.2%, 34.6% and 31.8% of pretax earnings in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Generally, fluctuations in the effective tax rate are due to changes within foreign and state effective tax rates resulting from the Companys business mix and changes in the tax impact of special items, which may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item and the taxing jurisdiction. The Companys effective tax rate reflects tax benefits derived from increasing operations outside the United States, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. The Company has tax incentive agreements in several non U.S. tax jurisdictions which will expire in fiscal years 2009 through 2024 if not renewed. The Company does not believe that potential changes from existing tax incentive agreements will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. The Companys fiscal 2006 provision for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations was $590.3 million and the effective tax rate was 32.2%. The fiscal 2006 effective tax rate benefited by 0.3 percentage points from equity based compensation expense, which is deductible at a tax rate higher than the average tax rate. The fiscal 2006 effective tax rate was adversely impacted by 0.1 percentage points due to the non deductibility of certain special items. The Companys fiscal 2005 provision for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations was $586.0 million and the effective tax rate was 34.6%. The fiscal 2005 effective tax rate was adversely impacted by 1.6 percentage points due to expenses related to the repatriation under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the AJCA) and 0.6 percentage points due to the non deductibility of certain special items. The tax rate during fiscal 2005 was not significantly impacted by equity based compensation as the Company implemented FAS No. 123(R) applying the modified prospective method in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. 46 Table of Contents A provision of the AJCA created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed income earned abroad by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from non U.S. subsidiaries. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company determined that it would repatriate $500 million of accumulated non U.S. earnings in fiscal 2006 pursuant to the repatriation provisions of the AJCA and the Company recorded a related tax liability of $26.3 million as of June 30, 2005. The $500 million is the maximum repatriation available to the Company under the repatriation provisions of the AJCA. During fiscal 2006, the Company repatriated $500 million of accumulated foreign earnings in accordance with its plan adopted during fiscal 2005. An additional tax liability of $0.4 million was recorded during fiscal 2006 due to new state legislation with respect to the AJCA, bringing the Companys tax liability related to the repatriation recorded through June 30, 2006 to $26.7 million. Uses of repatriated funds include domestic expenditures related to non executive salaries, capital asset investments and other permitted activities. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Loss from Discontinued Operations See Note 21 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the Companys discontinued operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND SENSITIVE ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that can have a significant impact on the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and require use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing the Companys consolidated financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Allowance for doubtful accounts Trade receivables are amounts owed to the Company through its operating activities and are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company also provides financing to various customers. Such financing arrangements range from one to ten years at interest rates that generally are subject to fluctuation. These financings may be collateralized, guaranteed by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivables are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and are included in other assets. Extending credit terms and calculating the required allowance for doubtful accounts involve the use of judgment by the Companys management. In determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, which includes general and specific reserves, the Company reviews accounts receivable aging, industry trends, customer financial strength, credit standing, historical write off trends and payment history to assess the probability of collection. The Company continuously monitors the collectibility of its receivable portfolio by analyzing the aging of its accounts receivable, assessing credit worthiness of its customers and evaluating the impact of changes in economic conditions that may impact credit risks. If the frequency or severity of customer defaults changes due to changes in customers financial condition or general economic conditions, the Companys allowance for uncollectible accounts may require adjustment. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $134.8 million and $122.4 million at June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. This allowance represented 2.6% and 3.0% of customer receivables at June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of revenue was 0.17%, 0.16% and 0.20% at June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts was reduced by $24.8 million, $22.5 million and $21.8 million in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, for customer deductions and write offs and was increased/(decreased) by additional provisions of $28.7 million, $8.7 million and $(0.1) million in 47 Table of Contents fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. A hypothetical 0.1% increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables to the fiscal 2006 reserve would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $5.2 million. Reserve methodologies are validated annually based on historical losses and economic, business and market trends. In addition, reserves are reviewed quarterly and updated if unusual circumstances or trends are present. The Company believes that the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal 2006 are appropriate and consistent with historical methodologies employed. At this time, the Company is not aware of any internal process or customer issues that might lead to a significant future increase in the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net revenue. The total Company receivable balance greater than 60 days past due exceeded the total reserve balance by $2.4 million or 2% at June 30, 2006. The total reserve at June 30, 2005 exceeded the total Company receivable balance greater than 60 days past due at that same date. See Schedule II included in this Form 10 K which includes a rollforward of activity for these allowance reserves. Inventories A substantial portion of inventories (approximately 73% in 2006 and 67% in 2005) are stated at the lower of cost, using the LIFO method, or market. These inventories are included within the core distribution facilities and the National Logistics Center within the Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business and are primarily merchandise inventories. The LIFO impact on the consolidated statement of earnings in a given year is dependent on pharmaceutical price inflation and the level of inventory. Prices for branded pharmaceuticals and consumer products are primarily inflationary, which results in an increase in cost of products sold, whereas prices for generic pharmaceuticals are deflationary, which results in a decrease in cost of products sold. Under the LIFO method, it is assumed that the most recent inventory purchases are the first items sold. As such, the Company uses LIFO to better match costs and revenues. Therefore, reductions in the overall inventory levels resulting from declining brand pharmaceutical and consumer product inventory levels generally will result in a decrease in future cost of goods sold, as the remaining inventory will be held at a lower cost due to the inflationary environment. Conversely, reductions in the overall inventory levels created by declining generic pharmaceutical inventory levels would generally increase future cost of goods sold, as the remaining inventory will be held at a higher cost due to the deflationary environment. In fiscal 2006, the LIFO credit of $26.0 million was primarily due to price deflation in generic pharmaceutical inventories. The LIFO credit in fiscal 2005 of $31.7 million was primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories, lower inventory levels and lower price increases related to branded pharmaceutical inventories. The remaining inventory is primarily stated at the lower of cost, using the first in, first out (FIFO) method, or market. If the Company had used the FIFO method of inventory valuation for all inventory, which approximates current replacement cost, inventories would not have changed in fiscal 2006 and would have increased $26.0 million in 2005. Due to continued deflation in generic pharmaceutical inventories, inventories at LIFO are approximately $1.0 million higher than its FIFO value as of June 30, 2006. However, the Companys policy is not to record inventories in excess of its current market value. Below is a reconciliation of FIFO inventory to LIFO inventory: June 30, (in millions) 2006 2005 FIFO inventory $ 7,714.2 $ 7,275.2 LIFO reserve valuation (26.0 ) Total inventory $ 7,714.2 $ 7,249.2 48 Table of Contents Inventories recorded on the Companys consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory which were $131.2 million and $127.7 million, respectively, at June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005. The Company reserves for inventory obsolescence using estimates based on historical experiences, sales trends, specific categories of inventory and age of on hand inventory. If actual conditions are less favorable than the Companys assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required, however these would not be expected to have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Goodwill and Other Intangibles The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Under SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Accordingly, the Company does not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily customer relationships and patents and trademarks, continue to be amortized over their useful lives. In conducting the impairment test, the fair value of the Companys reporting units is compared to its carrying amount including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, further analysis is performed to assess impairment. The Companys impairment analysis is based on a review of the price/earnings ratio for publicly traded companies similar in nature, scope and size or a discounted cash flow analysis. The methods and assumptions used to test impairment have been consistently applied for the periods presented. The discount rate used for impairment testing is based on the risk free rate plus an adjustment for risk factors. The use of alternative estimates, peer groups or changes in the industry, or adjusting the discount rate used could affect the estimated fair value of the assets and potentially result in impairment. Any identified impairment would result in an adjustment to the Companys results of operations. The Company performed its annual impairment tests in fiscal 2006 and 2005, neither of which resulted in the recognition of any impairment charges. Decreasing the price/earnings ratio of competitors used for impairment testing by one point or increasing the discount rate in the discounted cash flow analysis used for impairment testing by 1% would not have indicated impairment for any of the Companys reporting units for fiscal 2006 or 2005. An increase in the price/earnings ratio of competitors used for impairment testing or a decrease in the discount rate in the discounted cash flow analysis would not adversely affect the computed fair value of the reporting units. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill. Business Combinations Assumptions and estimates are used in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of the Companys acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets which require management to use significant judgment in determining fair value. The Company typically utilizes third party valuation experts for this process. In addition, current and future amortization expense for such intangibles is impacted by purchase price allocations as well as the assessment of estimated useful lives of such intangibles, excluding goodwill. The Company believes the assets recorded and the useful lives established are appropriate based upon current facts and circumstances. In conjunction with the review of a transaction, the valuation experts assess the status of the acquired companys research and development projects to determine the existence of in process research and development (IPR&D). The Company has not historically recorded significant costs related to IPR&D. However, in conjunction with the acquisition of Alaris, the Company was required to estimate the fair value of acquired IPR&D which required selecting an appropriate discount rate and estimating future cash flows for each project. Management also assessed the current status of development, nature and timing of efforts to complete such development, uncertainties and other factors when estimating the fair value. Costs were not assigned to IPR&D unless future development was probable. Once the fair value was determined, an asset was established and, as 49 Table of Contents required by U.S. GAAP, immediately written off as a special item in the Companys consolidated statement of earnings. The Company recorded $12.7 million as a special item in fiscal 2004 representing an estimate of Alaris IPR&D (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Special Items The Companys special items consist primarily of costs that relate to the integration of previously acquired companies or costs of restructuring operations to improve productivity. Integration costs from acquisitions accounted for under the pooling of interests method have been recorded in accordance with EITF Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs incurred in a Restructuring), and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 100, Restructuring and Impairment Charges. Certain costs related to these acquisitions, such as employee and lease terminations and other facility exit costs, were recognized at the date the integration plan was adopted by management. Certain other integration costs that did not meet the criteria for accrual at the commitment date have been expensed as the integration plan has been implemented. The costs associated with integrating acquired companies under the purchase method are recorded in accordance with EITF Issue No. 95 3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination. Certain costs to be incurred by the Company as the acquirer, such as employee and lease terminations and other facility exit costs, are recognized at the date the integration plan is committed to and adopted by management. Certain other integration costs that do not meet the criteria for accrual at the commitment date are expensed as the integration plan is implemented. At the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2003, the Company implemented SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, to account for costs incurred in restructuring activities. Under this standard, a liability for most types of exit costs is recognized as incurred. As discussed above, the Company previously accounted for costs associated with restructuring activities under EITF Issue No. 94 3, which required the Company to recognize a liability for restructuring costs on the date of the commitment to an exit plan. The majority of the special items related to acquisitions and restructurings can be classified in one of the following categories: employee related costs, exit costs (including lease termination costs), asset impairments and other integration costs. Employee costs include severance and termination benefits. Lease termination costs include lease cancellation fees, forfeited deposits and remaining payments due under existing lease agreements less estimated sublease income. Other facility exit costs include costs to move equipment or inventory out of a facility as well as other costs incurred to shut down a facility. Asset impairment costs include the reduction in value of the Companys assets as a result of the integration or restructuring activities. Other integration costs primarily include charges directly related to the integration plan such as consulting costs related to information systems and employee benefit plans as well as relocation and travel costs directly associated with the integration plan. The Company also records settlements of significant lawsuits that are infrequent, non recurring or unusual in nature as special items. In addition, costs related to legal fees and document preservation and production costs incurred in connection with the SEC investigation and the Audit Committee internal review and related matters are also classified as special items. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Vendor Reserves The Company maintains reserves to cover areas of exposure with its vendors. In determining appropriate vendor reserves, the Company assesses historical experience and current outstanding claims. The Company has established various levels of reserves based on the type of claim and status of review. The Company researches and resolves various types of contested transactions based on discussions with vendors, Company policy and 50 Table of Contents findings of research performed. Though the transaction types are relatively consistent, the Company has periodically refined its estimate methodology over the past few years by updating the reserve estimate percentages based upon historical experiences. Changes to the estimate percentages have resulted in a financial impact to the Companys cost of products sold in the period in which the change was made. At June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005, vendor reserves were $99.3 million and $103.1 million, respectively. Approximately 69% of the vendor reserve at June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005 pertained to the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment. Fluctuations in the reserve balance are also caused by the variations of outstanding claims from period to period, timing of settlements and specific vendor issues, such as bankruptcies (significant events would be described above in the operating earnings discussion of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Though vendor transactions remain relatively consistent from period to period, unforeseen events such as the deterioration in the financial condition of a large vendor or a settlement of numerous outstanding claims could cause the reserve to fluctuate, and thus, have a financial impact on the periods financial results. At any given time, there are outstanding items in various stages of research and resolution. The ultimate outcome of certain claims may be different than the Companys original estimate and may require adjustment. However, the Company believes reserves recorded for such disputes are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. Equity Based Compensation During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) applying the modified prospective method. This Statement requires all equity based payments to employees, including grants of options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. The fair values of options granted after the Company adopted this Statement were determined using a lattice valuation model and all options granted prior to adoption of this Statement were valued using a Black Scholes model. The Companys estimate of an options fair value is dependent on a complex estimation process that requires the estimation of future uncertain events. These estimates which are entered within the option valuation model include, but are not limited to, stock price volatility, the expected option life, expected dividend yield and option forfeiture rates. Effective with all options granted during fiscal 2006, the Company estimates its future stock price volatility based on implied volatility from traded options on the Companys Common Shares and historical volatility over a period of time commensurate with the contractual term of the option grant (7 years). The Company analyzed historical data to estimate option exercise behaviors and employee terminations to estimate the expected option life and forfeiture rates. The Company calculated separate option valuations for three separate groups of employees with similar historical exercise behaviors. Once employee stock option values are determined, current accounting practices do not permit them to be changed, even if the estimates used in the valuation model are different from actual results. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the Company to compare its estimated option forfeiture rates to actual forfeiture rates and record any adjustments as necessary. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. Income Taxes The Companys income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and income tax reserves reflect managements assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the financial statements. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. The Company had net deferred income tax assets of $461.1 million and $300.4 million at June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company also had net deferred income tax liabilities of $1,679.1 million and $1,536.3 million at June 30, 51 Table of Contents 2006 and 2005, respectively. Included in the net deferred income tax assets are net federal, state and local, and international loss and credit carryforwards at June 30, 2006 and 2005 of $84.9 million and $82.6 million, respectively. The Company has established a net valuation allowance of $34.4 million at June 30, 2006 against certain deferred tax assets, which primarily relates to state and international loss and credit carryforwards for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. Expiring carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted annually. After application of the valuation allowances described above, the Company anticipates no limitations will apply with respect to utilization of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described above. In addition, the Company has established an estimated liability for federal, state and non U.S. income tax exposures that arise and meet the criteria for accrual under SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company prepares and files tax returns based on its interpretation of tax laws and regulations and records estimates based on these judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business, the Companys tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation, regulation and or as concluded through the various jurisdictions tax court systems. The Company has developed a methodology for estimating its tax liability related to such matters and has consistently followed such methodology from period to period. The liability amounts for such matters are based on an evaluation of the underlying facts and circumstances, a thorough research of the technical merits of the Companys arguments and an assessment of the probability of the Company prevailing in its arguments. In all cases, the Company considers previous findings of the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company generally consults with external tax advisers in reaching its conclusions. Amounts accrued for a particular period are adjusted when a significant change in facts or circumstances has occurred. The Company believes that its estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and tax contingency reserves are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop a different estimate and the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued. In addition to income mix from geographical regions, the significant assumptions and estimates described in the preceding paragraphs are important contributors to the ultimate effective tax rate in each year. Although not material to the effective tax rate for the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, if any of the Companys assumptions or estimates were to change, an increase/decrease in the Companys effective tax rate by 1% on earnings before income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of change in accounting would have caused income tax expense to increase/decrease by $18.4 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. Loss Contingencies The Company accrues for contingencies related to litigation in accordance with SFAS No. 5, which requires the Company to assess contingencies to determine degree of probability and range of possible settlement. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in the Companys consolidated financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the settlement can be reasonably estimated. Assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. The Company regularly reviews contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of ultimate settlement may differ from these estimates. Self Insurance Accruals The Company is self insured for employee medical and dental insurance programs. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $24.1 million and $26.0 million for estimated costs related to outstanding claims at June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending 52 Table of Contents claims, administrative fees and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. These estimates are based on the Companys assessment of outstanding claims, historical analysis and current payment trends. The Company records an estimate for the claims incurred but not reported using an estimated lag period. This lag period assumption has been consistently applied for the periods presented. If the lag period was hypothetically adjusted by a period equal to a half month, the impact on earnings would be $5.5 million. If the amount of claims, medical or dental costs increase beyond what was estimated, the reserve might not be sufficient and additional expense could be required. However, the Company believes the liabilities recorded are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. Medical and dental insurance expense was $164.8 million, $162.5 million and $140.8 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Through a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, the Company has certain deductibles or is self insured for various risks including general liability, product liability, pharmacist professional liability, auto liability, property and workers compensation. However, claims in excess of certain limits are insured with commercial insurers. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $76.3 million and $66.4 million for anticipated costs related to liability, property and workers compensation at June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, defense costs, claims adjustment costs and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. For certain types of exposures the Company uses third parties to assist in developing the estimate of expected ultimate costs to settle each claim which is based on specific information related to each claim. For claims incurred but not reported the liabilities are calculated by outside actuaries and are derived in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practices. The amount of ultimate liability in respect to these matters is dependent on future contingent events that cannot be predicted with certainty and may differ from these estimates. Although the Company believes that liability estimates are appropriate based on information available at June 30, 2006, it is possible, based on generally accepted actuarial analysis, that under adverse conditions the ultimate liability could exceed recorded expected liabilities as of June 30, 2006 by as much as $4.2 million. The insurance expense for general liability, product liability, pharmacist professional liability, auto liability, property and workers compensation was $77.9 million, $75.0 million and $59.8 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Sources and Uses of Cash The following table summarizes the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004: Fiscal Years Ended June 30, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net cash provided by/(used in): Operating activities $ 2,140.3 $ 2,842.8 $ 2,623.7 Investing activities ($ 1,187.2 ) ($ 876.1 ) ($ 2,439.4 ) Financing activities ($ 1,032.2 ) ($ 1,657.3 ) ($ 815.7 ) Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2006 totaled approximately $2.1 billion, a decrease of $702.5 million when compared to fiscal 2005. The year over year decrease was primarily a result of the net proceeds received during fiscal 2005 of $550 million under the Companys committed receivables sales facility program. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding this program. During fiscal 2006, accounts payable increased approximately $1.5 billion, which was partially offset by increased inventories of $368.2 million and increased accounts receivable of approximately $929.3 million during this period. The accounts payable and related receivable and inventory increases are due to the new sales volume from an existing large retail chain customer and the timing of inventory purchases from vendors in the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment. Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2005 totaled approximately $2.8 billion, an increase of $219.1 million when compared to fiscal 2004. The year over year increase was primarily a result of the net 53 Table of Contents proceeds received during fiscal 2005 of $550 million under the Companys committed receivables sales facility program. Overall, the operating cash flow benefits were adversely affected by a $408.9 million decrease in earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting. A significant portion of the earnings decrease was due to non cash asset impairments of approximately $185.4 million. For further discussion of changes in the Companys earnings from continuing operations, see the Results of Operations section above. Investing activities. Cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2006 primarily represents the Companys purchase of $398.6 million of short term investments classified as available for sale and capital spending of approximately $443.2 million to develop and enhance the Companys infrastructure. In addition, during fiscal 2006, the Company used cash of approximately $362.2 million to complete acquisitions which expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry and are primarily associated with the acquisitions of Dohmen and ParMed within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment and Denver Biomedical and the remaining minority interest of Source Medical within the Medical Products and Services segment. See Acquisitions and Divestitures within Item 1 Business of this 10 K for further information regarding the Companys acquisitions. Cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2005 and 2004 primarily represents the Companys use of cash to complete acquisitions and capital spending to develop and enhance the Companys infrastructure, including facilities, information systems and other machinery and equipment. During fiscal 2005, the majority of the cash used in investing activities related to capital spending and costs associated with the acquisitions of Alaris and Geodax. During fiscal 2005, cash used in investing activities also included approximately $99.8 million related to the purchase of investment securities available for sale. See Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the Companys investments. The majority of the cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2004 was related to costs associated with the acquisitions of Alaris, Intercare and Medicap. Financing activities. The Companys financing activities utilized cash of $1,032.2 million, $1,657.3 million and $815.7 million during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Companys financing activities used cash of $1,032.2 million during fiscal 2006 primarily due to the $1,499.9 million utilized to repurchase the Companys Common Shares as authorized by its Board of Directors (see Share Repurchase Program below for additional information). In addition, the Company utilized cash to purchase certain buildings and equipment which were under capital lease agreements reflected in the reduction of long term obligations of $306.1 million and pay dividends on its Common Shares of approximately $101.8 million. The above uses of cash were partially offset by $500 million received from the issuance of Notes in December of 2005 (net proceeds of $496.7 million) and the proceeds received from the shares issued under various employee stock plans of approximately $240.8 million. Cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2005 primarily reflects the Companys decisions to retire its commercial paper and certain debt assumed in the Alaris acquisition and repurchase its Common Shares as authorized by its Board of Directors. During fiscal 2005, the Company utilized $500.3 million to repurchase its Common Shares. Cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2004 primarily reflects the Companys decision to repurchase approximately $1.5 billion of its shares as authorized by its Board of Directors. These cash outflows for fiscal 2004 were partially offset by net proceeds of approximately $512.8 million received from the Companys debt facilities and proceeds of approximately $216.7 million received from shares issued under various employee stock plans. International Cash The Companys cash balance of approximately $1.3 billion as of June 30, 2006 includes $362.9 million of cash held by its subsidiaries outside of the United States. Although the vast majority of cash held outside the United States is available for repatriation, doing so subjects it to United States federal income tax. 54 Table of Contents Share Repurchases During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Companys Board of Directors approved, and management completed, several share repurchase programs. The Company repurchased approximately $3.5 billion of shares, in the aggregate, through these share repurchase programs over this period of time. During fiscal 2006, the Company repurchased approximately 21.9 million shares having an average price paid per share of $68.39. During fiscal 2005, the Company repurchased approximately 8.8 million shares having an average price paid per share of $56.76. During fiscal 2004, the Company repurchased approximately 24.2 million shares having an average price paid per share of $62.03. The repurchased shares were placed into treasury to be used for general corporate purposes. See Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities within Item 5 Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities within this Form 10 K for further information regarding the Companys most recent share repurchase program. Capital Resources In addition to cash, the Companys sources of liquidity include a $1 billion commercial paper program backed by a $1 billion revolving credit facility, a $150 million extendible commercial note program and a committed receivable sales facility program with a capacity to sell $800 million in receivables. See Note 8 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Companys committed receivables sales facility program. The Company initiated the $1 billion commercial paper program in August 2006, which replaced its former $1.5 billion commercial paper program. As of June 30, 2006, the Company did not have any outstanding borrowings from the commercial paper program. The Company entered into a $1 billion revolving credit agreement in November 2005, which replaced two $750 million revolving credit facilities. This new facility is available for general corporate purposes. The Company also has other short term credit facilities of approximately $323.6 million, of which $163.5 million was outstanding as of June 30, 2006. On December 15, 2005, the Company issued $500 million of 5.85% Notes due 2017. The proceeds of the debt issuance were used for general corporate purposes, which included working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, repayment of indebtedness and repurchases of equity securities. During fiscal 2001, the Company entered into an agreement to periodically sell trade receivables to a special purpose accounts receivable and financing entity (the Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity), which is exclusively engaged in purchasing trade receivables from, and making loans to, the Company. The Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity, which is consolidated by the Company as it is the primary beneficiary of the variable interest entity, issued $250 million and $400 million in preferred variable debt securities to parties not affiliated with the Company during fiscal 2004 and 2001, respectively. These preferred debt securities are classified as long term obligations, less current portion and other short term obligations in the Companys consolidated balance sheet. From time to time, the Company considers and engages in acquisition transactions in order to expand its role as a leading provider of services to the healthcare industry. The Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its role as a provider of products and services to the healthcare industry through all its reportable segments. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, the Company may need to enter into funding arrangements for such mergers or acquisitions. The Company currently believes that, based upon existing cash, operating cash flows, available capital resources (as discussed above) and other available market transactions, it has adequate capital resources at its disposal to fund currently anticipated capital expenditures, business growth and expansion, contractual obligations and current and projected debt service requirements, including those related to business combinations. Debt Ratings/Covenants The Companys senior debt credit ratings from S&P, Moodys and Fitch are BBB, Baa2 and BBB, respectively, the commercial paper ratings are A 2, P 2 and F2, respectively, and the ratings outlooks are stable. 55 Table of Contents The Companys various borrowing facilities and long term debt, except for the preferred debt securities as discussed below, are free of any financial covenants other than minimum net worth which cannot fall below $5.0 billion at any time. As of June 30, 2006, the Company was in compliance with this covenant. The Companys preferred debt securities contain a minimum adjusted tangible net worth covenant (adjusted tangible net worth cannot fall below $2.5 billion) and certain financial ratio covenants. As of June 30, 2006, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants would be followed by a grace period during which the Company may discuss remedies with the security holders, or extinguish the securities, without causing an event of default. Interest Rate and Currency Risk Management The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to cash flow variability. The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to protect the value of its existing foreign currency assets and liabilities and the value of its debt. See Notes 1 and 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives, including foreign currency hedging instruments. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS As of June 30, 2006, the Companys contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total On Balance Sheet: Long term debt (1) $ 224.7 $ 874.0 $ 490.4 $ 1,213.9 $ 2,803.0 Interest on long term debt 170.2 316.0 217.0 542.9 1,246.1 Capital lease obligations (2) 6.9 10.2 8.8 7.7 33.6 Other long term liabilities (3) 3.0 5.6 5.8 89.3 103.7 Off Balance Sheet: Operating leases (4) 99.5 165.2 116.8 149.4 530.9 Purchase obligations (5) 632.0 32.8 7.6 3.0 675.4 Total financial obligations $ 1,136.3 $ 1,403.8 $ 846.4 $ 2,006.2 $ 5,392.7 (1) Represents maturities of the Companys long term debt obligations excluding capital lease obligations described below. See Note 4 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (2) Represents maturities of the Companys capital lease obligations included within long term debt on the Companys balance sheet and the related estimated future interest payments. (3) Represents cash outflows by period for certain of the Companys long term liabilities in which cash outflows could be reasonably estimated. The primary items included are estimates of the Companys pension and other post retirement benefit obligations as well as accrued marketing fees and other long term liabilities. Certain long term liabilities, such as deferred taxes, have been excluded from the table above as there are no cash outflows associated with the liabilities or the timing of the cash outflows cannot reasonably be estimated. (4) Represents minimum rental payments and the related estimated future interest payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms as described in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (5) Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and specifying all significant terms, including the following: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which the Company is obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to 56 Table of Contents purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally cancelled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from the Companys total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. The significant amount disclosed within fiscal 2007, as compared to other periods, primarily represents obligations to purchase inventories within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS See Note 8 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of off balance sheet arrangements. OTHER Recent Financial Accounting Standards. See Note 1 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards. Recent Developments. On August 28, 2006, the Company announced that is has suspended production, sales, repairs and installation of its Alaris&reg; SE infusion pump after approximately 1,300 units were seized by the FDA. On August 15, 2006, the Company initiated a voluntary field corrective action of the product as a result of information indicating that a sensitive keypad posed a risk of key bounce and could lead to over infusion of patients. As part of the field corrective action, the Company sent letters and warning labels to its customers and is currently testing a modification that reduces sensitivity of the keypad. This modification will need to be validated on the product and approved by the FDA. These actions did not require the return of products currently in use by customers and the Company currently has no plans of recalling these products. The Company has stopped manufacturing and distribution of the Alaris SE infusion pumps pending resolution of the issue with the FDA. There have been approximately 140,000 Alaris SE infusion pumps distributed worldwide during the past 12 years and the product line currently represents less than 1% of annual revenue for the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. The Company does not believe that implementation of the modification currently being tested will materially affect the Companys results of operations or financial condition. However, the Company has not completed its testing or received approval from the FDA and if additional remedial actions are deemed necessary by the Company or the FDA, the effect could become material to the Companys results of operations or financial condition. See Note 23 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of additional subsequent events after June 30, 2006. Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The Company is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations as a result of certain market risks. These market risks primarily relate to foreign exchange, interest rate, and commodity related changes. The Company maintains a comprehensive hedging program to manage volatility related to these market exposures. It employs operational, economic, and derivative financial instruments in order to mitigate risk. See Notes 1 and 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Companys use of derivative instruments. Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity. By nature of the Companys global operations, it is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations resulting from foreign exchange rate variation. These exposures are transactional and translational in nature. Since the Company manufactures and sells its products throughout the world, its foreign currency risk is diversified. Principal drivers of this diversified foreign exchange exposure include the European euro, Mexican peso, British pound, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Thai baht. 57 Table of Contents Transactional Exposure The Companys transactional exposure arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than the functional currency of the parent or its subsidiaries. As part of its risk management program, at the end of each fiscal year the Company performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted transactional exposure for the upcoming fiscal year. The 2006 analysis utilizes an implied volatility measurement for each currency to estimate the net potential gain or loss. The 2005 analysis assumed a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening of the U.S dollar. Included in the analysis is the estimated impact of its hedging program, which mitigates the Companys transactional exposure. At June 30, 2006 and 2005, the Company had hedged approximately 44% and 52%, respectively, of its transactional exposures. The following table summarizes the analysis as it relates to the Companys transactional exposure: (in millions) 2006 2005 Net estimated transactional exposure $ 496.8 $ 324.5 Sensitivity gain/loss 41.6 32.5 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (18.4 ) (16.8 ) Estimated net gain/loss $ 23.2 $ 15.7 Translational Exposure The Company also has exposure related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign divisions into U.S dollars, the functional currency of the parent. It performs a similar analysis as described above related to this translational exposure. The Company does not typically hedge any of its translational exposure and no hedging impact was included in the Companys analysis at June 30, 2006 and 2005. The following table summarizes the Companys translational exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening in the U.S dollar: (in millions) 2006 2005 Net estimated translational exposure $ 200.4 $ 187.7 Sensitivity gain/loss $ 20.4 $ 18.8 Interest Rate Sensitivity. The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing and investing activities to maintain liquidity and fund business operations. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions and other factors. The Companys policy is to manage exposures to interest rates using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt as deemed appropriate by management. The Company utilizes interest rate swap instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate movements. As part of its risk management program, the Company annually performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted exposure to interest rates for the following fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. At June 30, 2006 and 2005, the potential increase or decrease in interest expense under this analysis as a result of this hypothetical change was $6.2 million and $4.6 million, respectively. Commodity Price Sensitivity. The Company purchases certain commodities for use in its manufacturing processes, which include latex, heating oil, diesel fuel and polystyrene, among others. The Company typically purchases these commodities at market prices, and as a result, is affected by price fluctuations. As part of its risk management program, the Company performs sensitivity analysis on its forecasted commodity exposure for the following fiscal year. At June 30, 2006 and 2005, the Company had not hedged any of these exposures. The table 58 Table of Contents below summarizes the Companys analysis of these forecasted commodity exposures and a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices as of June 30, 2006 and 2005: (in millions) 2006 2005 Estimated commodity exposure $ 173.7 $ 141.0 Sensitivity gain/loss $ 17.4 $ 14.1 The Company also has exposure to certain energy related commodities, including natural gas and electricity through its normal course of business. These exposures result primarily from operating the Companys distribution, manufacturing, and corporate facilities. In certain deregulated markets, the Company from time to time enters into long term purchase contracts to supply these items at a specific price. 
 
Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis presented below refers to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10 K. OVERVIEW Cardinal Health is a leading provider of products and services supporting the healthcare industry. The Company helps healthcare providers and manufacturers improve the productivity and safety of healthcare. For further information regarding the Companys business, see Item 1 Business within this Form 10 K. Results of Operations The following summarizes the Companys results of operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004. (in millions, except per Common Share amounts) Growth (1) Results of Operations Years ended June 30, 2006 2005 2006 2005 2004 Revenue 10 % 15 % $ 81,363.6 $ 74,271.6 $ 64,522.6 Operating earnings 8 % (22 )% $ 1,966.7 $ 1,824.3 $ 2,330.7 Earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting 12 % (27 )% $ 1,244.7 $ 1,108.3 $ 1,517.2 Net earnings (5 )% (29 )% $ 1,000.1 $ 1,050.7 $ 1,474.5 Net diluted earnings per Common Share (3 )% (28 )% $ 2.33 $ 2.41 $ 3.35 (1) Growth is calculated as change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to immediately preceding year. Growing demand for the Companys diversified products and services in fiscal 2006 led to record revenue of approximately $81.4 billion, a 10% increase from fiscal 2005. The Companys operating earnings increased 8% to nearly $2.0 billion and diluted earnings per Common Share from continuing operations increased 14% to $2.90. The Company placed significant emphasis on improving operating margins, which increased in each reportable segment from the first half to the second half of the fiscal year. Reportable Segments The Companys operations are organized into four reportable segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services; Medical Products and Services; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services; and Clinical Technologies and Services. See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of changes to business segments during fiscal 2006. Effective for the first quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2007, the Company will report financial information for the following five reportable segments: Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical; Supply Chain Services Medical; Medical Products Manufacturing; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services; and Clinical Technologies and Services. Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services Performance During fiscal 2006, the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment revenue increased 11%, primarily from revenue from bulk customers. Operating earnings within this segment were flat due to the positive impact of signed distribution service agreements and earnings from generic products, offset by decreased selling margins resulting from competitive pressures and a charge of $31.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting credits owed to certain vendors. During fiscal 2006, this segment completed its transition to a fee for service business model, as described below under Pharmaceutical Distribution Business Model Transition. With the transition to the fee for service business model completed, the segments operating earnings were more evenly distributed throughout the fiscal year, moderating the historical earnings seasonality. Going forward, this transition will continue to result in less earnings volatility within this segment. 32 Table of Contents Medical Products and Services Performance Revenue and operating earnings within the Medical Products and Services segment increased 2% and 4%, respectively, during fiscal 2006. However, these growth rates were adversely impacted by the loss of the Specialty Distribution business largest customer at the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2006. Revenue and operating earnings growth rates were lowered by approximately 2 percentage points and 1 percentage point, respectively, during fiscal 2006 due to the loss of this customer and the ultimate sale of a significant portion of this business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. The segments operating earnings growth resulted primarily from the favorable year over year comparison from the prior year latex litigation charge, favorable product mix and manufacturing cost reductions. Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services Performance During fiscal 2006, the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment revenue increased 4% due to increased demand for certain proprietary and oral drug delivery formulations, improved terms with existing customers and increased volume on certain sterile products and a significant one time payment from an ongoing customer. Operating earnings decreased 3% within this segment due to the impact of competitive pressures and pricing within the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business and the stronger U.S. dollar during fiscal 2006. Clinical Technologies and Services Performance During fiscal 2006, the Clinical Technologies and Services segment revenue increased 11% due to increased demand for the segments core products within both the Alaris and Pyxis businesses and the introduction of new products. In addition to the strong revenue growth noted above, this segments operating earnings increased 56% due to favorable product mix and manufacturing efficiencies and integration synergies from the acquisition of Alaris. Pharmaceutical Distribution Business Model Transition The Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business began a business model transition in fiscal 2003 regarding the manner in which it was compensated for the services that it provides to branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. Historically, Pharmaceutical Distribution was compensated by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers in the form of price inflation. Specifically, a significant portion of the compensation Pharmaceutical Distribution received from such manufacturers was derived from the Companys ability to purchase pharmaceutical inventory in advance of price increases, hold that inventory as manufacturers increased prices, and generate a higher gross margin on the subsequent sale of that inventory. Beginning in fiscal 2003, branded pharmaceutical manufacturers began to seek greater control over the amount of product available in the supply chain and, as a result, began to change their sales practices by restricting the volume of product available for purchase by wholesalers. In addition, manufacturers sought additional services from the Company, including providing data concerning product sales and distribution patterns. The Company believes that manufacturers sought these changes to provide them with greater visibility over product demand and movement in the market and to increase product safety and integrity by reducing the risks associated with product being available to, and distributed in, the secondary market. These changes significantly reduced the compensation (as a percentage of revenue) received by the Company from branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. In response to these developments, the Company established a compensation system with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers that is significantly less dependent on manufacturers pricing practices, and is based on the services provided by the Company to meet the unique distribution requirements of each manufacturers products. During fiscal 2005, the Company worked with individual branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to define fee for service terms that compensate the Company based on the services being provided to such manufacturers. This transition was completed during fiscal 2006. These new arrangements have moderated the seasonality of earnings which have historically reflected the pattern of manufacturers price increases. 33 Table of Contents Under the fee for service arrangements, reflected in written distribution service agreements, the Companys compensation for these services may be a fee or a fee plus an inflation based compensation component. In certain instances, the Company must achieve certain performance criteria to receive the maximum fees under the agreement. The fee is typically a fixed percentage of the Companys purchases or the Companys sales of the manufacturers products to customers. Apart from its fee for service arrangements reflected in distribution service agreements, the Company also continues to be compensated by some branded manufacturers based solely on price inflation. If the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price inflation slows, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The distribution service agreements between the Company and certain branded pharmaceutical manufacturers generally range from a one year term with an automatic renewal feature to a five year term. These agreements generally cannot be terminated unless mutually agreed to by the parties, a breach of the agreement occurs that is not cured, or in the event of a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate without cause within a defined notice period. Adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and Equity Based Compensation Expense During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, applying the modified prospective method. SFAS No. 123(R) requires all equity based payments to employees, including grants of employee options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for equity based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations, and equity based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure within the notes to the financial statements. In anticipation of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company did not modify the terms of any previously granted options. The Company made significant changes to its equity compensation program with its annual equity grant in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, including reducing the overall number of options granted and utilizing a mix of restricted share and option awards. The Company also moved from three year cliff vesting to installment vesting over four years for annual employee option awards and shortened the option term from ten to seven years. Total Company operating earnings for fiscal 2006 were adversely affected by the impact of equity based compensation due to the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) and the impact of stock appreciation rights granted to the Companys then Chairman and Chief Executive Officer during the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The Company recorded $237.3 million for equity based compensation during fiscal 2006 compared to $10.1 million in fiscal 2005. Beyond the current fiscal year, the Company expects the equity based compensation expense to decline year over year due primarily to the significant changes made to the Companys equity compensation program, including a reduction in the overall number of options granted. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Global Restructuring Program As previously reported, during fiscal 2005, the Company launched a global restructuring program in connection with its One Cardinal Health initiative with the goal of increasing the value the Company provides its customers through better integration of existing businesses and improved efficiency from a more disciplined approach to procurement and resource allocation. The Company expects the program to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2008 and to improve operating earnings and position the Company for future growth. The global restructuring program is being implemented in two phases. The first phase of the program, which was announced in December 2004, focuses on business consolidations and process improvements, including 34 Table of Contents rationalizing the Companys facilities worldwide, reducing the Companys global workforce, and rationalizing and discontinuing overlapping and under performing product lines. The second phase of the program, which was announced in August 2005, focuses on longer term integration activities that will enhance service to customers through improved integration across the Companys segments and continue to streamline internal operations. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the restructuring costs incurred by the Company during fiscal 2006 and 2005 related to both phases of the global restructuring program. Acquisitions During fiscal 2006, the Company completed acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $364 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $149 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations as of the date of acquisition. On June 28, 2004, the Company acquired approximately 98.7% of the outstanding common stock of Alaris, a provider of intravenous medication safety products and services. On July 7, 2004, Alaris merged with a subsidiary of the Company to complete the transaction. The value of the transaction, including the assumption of Alaris debt, totaled approximately $2.1 billion. For further information regarding the Alaris acquisition and the valuation of the acquisitions intangibles, see Notes 2 and 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. During December 2003, the Company completed its acquisition of Intercare, a European pharmaceutical products and services company. The cash transaction was valued at approximately $570 million, including the assumption of approximately $150 million in Intercare debt. During fiscal 2006, the United Kingdom based Intercare Pharmaceutical Distribution business was classified as discontinued operations. See Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, in addition to the acquisitions of Alaris and Intercare, the Company completed several other acquisitions, including Geodax, ParMed, Denver Biomedical and Dohmen as well as the acquisition of the remaining shares of the Source Medical joint venture. The Companys trend with regard to acquisitions has been to expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry. This trend has resulted in expansion into areas that complement the Companys existing operations and provide opportunities for the Company to develop synergies with, and strengthen, the acquired business. As the healthcare industry continues to change, the Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry through all its reportable segments. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to successfully take advantage of any such opportunity if and when they arise or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are pursued or consummated, the Company would incur additional merger related costs, and may need to enter into funding arrangements for such mergers or acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful. Government Investigations The Company is currently the subject of a formal investigation by the SEC relating to certain accounting and financial reporting matters, and the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York is conducting an inquiry with respect to the Company. The Company continues to engage in settlement discussions with the staff of the SEC and has reached an agreement in principle on the basic terms of a potential settlement involving the Company that the SEC staff has indicated it is prepared to recommend to the Commission. The proposed settlement is subject to the completion of definitive documentation as well as acceptance and authorization by the Commission and would, among other things, require the Company to pay a $35 million penalty. The Company accordingly recorded a reserve of $10 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 in addition to the $25 million reserve recorded during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. There can be no assurance that the Companys efforts to resolve the SECs investigation with respect to the Company will be successful, or that the amount reserved will be sufficient, and the Company cannot predict the timing or the final terms of any settlement. For further information regarding these matters see Item 3 Legal Proceedings and Notes 9 and 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 35 Table of Contents Shareholder Litigation The Company is subject to several class action lawsuits brought against the Company and certain of its former and present officers and directors since July 2004. The Company is currently unable to predict or determine the outcome or resolution of these proceedings, or to estimate the amounts of, or potential range of, loss with respect to these proceedings. The range of possible resolutions of these proceedings could include judgments against the Company or settlements that could require substantial payments by the Company. These payments could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. The Company discusses these cases and other litigation to which it is a party in greater detail under Item 3 Legal Proceedings and in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following sections discuss the results of operations of the Company and its reportable segments. Revenue Revenue for the Company and its reportable segments are as follows: For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (1) (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services (PDPS) (2) (3) Revenue from Non Bulk Customers $ 37,228.7 $ 36,379.4 $ 34,143.7 Revenue from Bulk Customers 29,872.0 24,084.4 18,009.0 Total PDPS 67,100.7 60,463.8 52,152.7 Medical Products and Services 10,013.8 9,824.0 9,143.5 Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services (4) 2,826.4 2,716.7 2,454.7 Clinical Technologies and Services 2,430.3 2,189.3 1,550.6 Corporate (5) (1,007.6 ) (922.2 ) (778.9 ) Total Company Revenue $ 81,363.6 $ 74,271.6 $ 64,522.6 (1) See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of changes to business segments during fiscal 2006. (2) The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment amounts were adjusted to reflect the classification of its United Kingdom based Intercare Pharmaceutical Distribution business as discontinued operations. Prior period amounts were adjusted to reflect these changes in classification. See Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations. (3) Bulk customers consist of customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. Non bulk customers include retail stores, hospitals, alternate care sites and other customers not specifically classified as bulk customers. Most deliveries to bulk customers consist of product shipped in the same form as received from the manufacturer. See discussion below within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services section for the Companys description of revenue from bulk customers. (4) The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment amounts were adjusted to reflect the classification of its sterile pharmaceutical manufacturing business in Humacao, Puerto Rico and a significant portion of its Healthcare Marketing Services business as discontinued operations. Prior period amounts were adjusted to reflect these changes in classification. See Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations. (5) Corporate revenue consists of the elimination of intersegment revenue for all periods presented and foreign currency translation adjustments in fiscal 2004. 36 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the revenue growth rates for the Company and its reportable segments, as well as the percent of Company revenue, excluding Corporate, each segment represents: Growth (1) Percent ofCompany Revenue Years ended June 30, 2006 2005 2006 2005 2004 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services 11 % 16 % 82 % 80 % 80 % Medical Products and Services 2 % 7 % 12 % 13 % 14 % Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services 4 % 11 % 3 % 4 % 4 % Clinical Technologies and Services 11 % 41 % 3 % 3 % 2 % Total Company 10 % 15 % 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Growth is calculated as change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to immediately preceding year. Total Company. Total Company revenue increased 10% and 15%, respectively, during fiscal 2006 and 2005. The revenue growth in fiscal 2006 resulted from the following: increased revenue within each of the Companys four reportable segments, including revenue growth of 11% within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment, driven primarily by growth in revenue from bulk customers and 11% within the Clinical Technologies and Services segment, driven primarily by revenue growth within the Pyxis and Alaris products businesses; pharmaceutical price increases within its Pharmaceutical Distribution business averaging approximately 5.6% during fiscal 2006; the addition of new customers; and the addition of new products. These increases were partially offset by slower revenue growth within the Medical Products and Services segment due to the loss of the Specialty Distribution business largest customer at the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2006 and the ultimate sale of a significant portion of this business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. In addition, the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment was adversely impacted by competitive pressures and pricing within the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business. The revenue growth in fiscal 2005 resulted from the following: revenue growth from existing customers; the addition of new customers; the addition of new products; pharmaceutical price increases within its Pharmaceutical Distribution business averaging approximately 4.9% during fiscal 2005; and the year over year impact of acquisitions. These increases during fiscal 2005 were partially offset by slower revenue growth within the Medical Products and Services and Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments and a decline in revenue from Pyxis products within the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segments revenue increased 11% during fiscal 2006. The most significant growth was in revenue from bulk customers (described below), which increased approximately 24% during fiscal 2006. In addition, pharmaceutical price increases for the trailing twelve month period of approximately 5.6% contributed to the revenue growth in this segment. 37 Table of Contents The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment differentiates between bulk and non bulk customers because bulk customers generate lower margins than non bulk customers. Bulk customers consist of customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. Non bulk customers include retail stores, hospitals, alternate care sites and other customers not specifically classified as bulk customers. Most deliveries to bulk customers consist of product shipped in the same form as the product is received from the manufacturer. Bulk customers have the ability to process large quantities of products in central locations and self distribute these products to their individual retail stores or customers. Non bulk customers, on the other hand, require more complex servicing. These services include receiving inventory in large or full case quantities and breaking it down into smaller quantities, warehousing the product for a longer period of time, picking individual products specific to a customers order and delivering that smaller order to a customer location. Bulk customers generate lower margins than non bulk customers because of lower customer pricing and lower vendor margins. Both bulk and non bulk customers generate vendor margins, but such margins for bulk customers are lower due to the impact of product mix. Lower customer pricing and vendor margins for bulk customers, however, are partially offset by the lower cost of servicing bulk customers. As noted above, deliveries to bulk customers have lower servicing costs related to warehousing and handling than deliveries to non bulk customers. See the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segments Operating Earnings discussion below for the significant items impacting margin within this segment. Revenue from bulk customers for fiscal 2006 was $29.9 billion compared to $24.1 billion in fiscal 2005. The increase in revenue from bulk customers primarily relates to additional volume from existing large retail chain customers and market growth with customers in the mail order business. The increase from existing customers is primarily due to certain customers deciding to purchase from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segments revenue growth of 16% in fiscal 2005 resulted from strong sales to customers within this segments core Pharmaceutical Distribution business. The most significant growth was in revenue from bulk customers, which increased approximately 34%. The increase in revenue from bulk customers primarily relates to additional volume from existing and new customers as well as market growth within the mail order business. The increase from existing customers is primarily due to certain customers purchasing from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer. In addition, pharmaceutical price increases for the trailing twelve month period of approximately 4.9% contributed to the revenue growth in this segment. However, the rate of price increases was lower than the rate experienced over the prior fiscal year. Medical Products and Services. The Medical Products and Services segments revenue growth of 2% during fiscal 2006 resulted primarily from the following: revenue growth within the segments manufactured gloves and respiratory product lines primarily due to new customer accounts and new products; revenue growth within the segments distribution business primarily due to new customer accounts and increased volume from existing customers; and international revenue growth due to new customers, primarily in Canada. The Specialty Distribution business largest customer began self distribution on January 1, 2006 which significantly impacted revenue growth during the second half of fiscal 2006. Revenue growth was lowered by approximately 2 percentage points during fiscal 2006 within this segment primarily due to the loss of this customer. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company completed the sale of a significant portion of the Specialty Distribution business to Oncology Therapeutics Network, a wholly owned subsidiary of Oncology Holdings, Inc. Oncology Therapeutics Network, a specialty pharmaceutical services company, acquired the Companys oncology distribution capabilities and the Company will maintain a minority ownership in Oncology Holdings, Inc. In addition, revenue growth was adversely impacted by foreign exchange rates due to the stronger U.S. dollar. 38 Table of Contents The Medical Products and Services revenue growth of 7% in fiscal 2005 resulted primarily from the following: increased volume to existing customer accounts; new contracts signed during fiscal 2004 within the medical surgical distribution business; strong international growth, especially in Canada and Europe; favorable foreign exchange rates; increased revenue of approximately 11% within the Specialty Distribution business due to increased revenue from the business largest customer and growth of the existing customer base; and growth of 6% in the medical surgical distribution business, primarily from increased sales to hospital supply and ambulatory care customers. The segments revenue growth in fiscal 2005 was adversely affected by slower growth in the sale of self manufactured products, and the loss of certain business from customers within a GPO. Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments revenue growth of 4% during fiscal 2006 resulted primarily from the following: increased demand for certain proprietary and oral drug delivery formulations; improved terms with existing customers and increased volume on certain sterile products; and a payment of approximately $14.0 million from an ongoing customer within the Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business for commitments through December 31, 2005 and for the cancellation of a future commitment. The segments revenue growth was adversely affected by the competitive pressures and pricing within the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business and the stronger U.S. dollar adversely impacting revenue growth by approximately 1 percentage point. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments revenue growth of 11% in fiscal 2005 resulted primarily from strong demand for certain softgel products, the impact of acquisitions, primarily Intercare and the acquisition of Geodax within the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business, and the impact of foreign exchange rates. Revenue growth was offset by certain operational issues as noted below. The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures within this segment accounted for approximately 5% of the revenue growth in fiscal 2005. Revenue in fiscal 2005 increased by approximately 2% as a result of the impact of foreign exchange rates. This impact takes into consideration the fiscal 2005 rate fluctuations due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar and the fiscal 2004 constant rate adjustment (see footnote 6 to the table in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion as it relates to fiscal 2004 constant rate adjustment). The segments growth was adversely affected by delays in opening new facilities and existing facilities operating below planned capacity within the Companys Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business. Clinical Technologies and Services. The Clinical Technologies and Services segments revenue growth of 11% during fiscal 2006 resulted primarily from revenue growth within the Pyxis and Alaris products businesses. Pyxis products revenue increased approximately 15% due to higher unit sales resulting from increased demand for the Medstation&reg; 3000 product and improvements within the sales and installation cycles. Alaris products revenue increased approximately 19% during fiscal 2006 due to competitive displacements driven by technological advantages and sales obtained through the Companys other relationships. In addition, Alaris revenue increased due to the continued demand for its core products and the introduction of new products into the market. These strong revenue increases were tempered by revenue growth of 5% during fiscal 2006 within the clinical services and consulting businesses. 39 Table of Contents The Clinical Technologies and Services revenue growth of 41% in fiscal 2005 resulted from the impact of the acquisition of Alaris. Alaris results of operations were not included in the prior period amounts. Strong revenue growth within the clinical services and consulting businesses was offset by significant revenue declines within the Pyxis products business. The Pyxis products business experienced a revenue decline of approximately 17% in fiscal 2005 due to the following: a lengthened sales and installation cycle; the delayed introduction of Pyxis MedStation&reg; 3000; increased competition within the industry; and the impact from the Audit Committees internal review, as more fully described in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which created execution issues as the efforts and attention of certain sales and installation teams were diverted from ordinary business operations. Operating Earnings Operating earnings for the Company and its reportable segments are as follows: For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (1) (2) (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services (3) $ 996.8 $ 997.1 $ 1,046.5 Medical Products and Services 646.8 620.4 661.7 Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services (4) 304.7 313.9 417.8 Clinical Technologies and Services 384.2 245.6 322.8 Corporate (5) (6) (365.8 ) (352.7 ) (118.1 ) Total Company Operating Earnings $ 1,966.7 $ 1,824.3 $ 2,330.7 (1) See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of changes to business segments during fiscal 2006. (2) During the three months ended September 30, 2005, the Company changed its methodology for allocating corporate costs to the reportable segments to better align corporate spending with the segments that receive the related benefits. Prior period results were adjusted to reflect this change in methodology. (3) The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment amounts were adjusted to reflect the classification of its United Kingdom based Intercare Pharmaceutical Distribution business as discontinued operations. Prior period amounts were adjusted to reflect this change in classification. See Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations. (4) The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment amounts were adjusted to reflect the classification of its sterile pharmaceutical manufacturing business in Humacao, Puerto Rico and a significant portion of its Healthcare Marketing Services business as discontinued operations. Prior period amounts were adjusted to reflect this change in classification. See Note 21 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding discontinued operations. (5) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) applying the modified prospective method. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for equity based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations, and equity based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure within the notes to the financial statements. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (6) Corporate operating earnings primarily include special items, equity based compensation, impairment charges and other, investment spending and other unallocated corporate expenses. See footnote 6 to the table in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of Corporate operating earnings. 40 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the operating earnings growth rates for the Company and its reportable segments, as well as the percent of Company operating earnings, excluding Corporate, each segment represents: Growth (1) Percent of Company Operating Earnings Years ended June 30, 2006 2005 2006 2005 2004 Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services (5 )% 43 % 46 % 43 % Medical Products and Services 4 % (6 )% 28 % 29 % 27 % Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services (3 )% (25 )% 13 % 14 % 17 % Clinical Technologies and Services 56 % (24 )% 16 % 11 % 13 % Total Company (2) 8 % (22 )% 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) Growth is calculated as change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to immediately preceding year. (2) The Companys overall operating earnings growth of 8% and (22)%, respectively, in fiscal 2006 and 2005 includes the effect of special items, equity based compensation and impairment charges and other. Special items, equity based compensation and impairment charges and other are not allocated to the segments. See Notes 2, 13 and 20 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Companys special items, equity based compensation and impairment charges and other. Total Company. Total Company operating earnings increased 8% during fiscal 2006 due to operating earnings growth in the Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products and Services segments and the favorable year over year impact of special items and impairment charges and other, which were partially offset by increased selling, general and administrative expenses as discussed below. See Notes 2 and 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding special items and impairment charges and other. Total Company operating earnings increased 8% during fiscal 2006 as a result of the following factors affecting the Companys reportable segments: Clinical Technologies and Services segment operating earnings increased 56% due to strong revenue growth, favorable product mix and manufacturing efficiencies and integration synergies from the Alaris acquisition; Medical Products and Services segment operating earnings were impacted by the favorable year over year impact of the latex litigation charge, favorable product mix and cost reductions which were partially offset by the loss of the Specialty Distribution business largest customer at the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2006; Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment operating earnings were flat due to the positive impact of signed distribution service agreements and earnings from generic products, offset by competitive pressures impacting selling margin and a charge of $31.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting credits owed to certain vendors; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment operating earnings were adversely impacted by competitive pressures and pricing within the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business and the stronger U.S. dollar during fiscal 2006; and increased selling, general and administrative expenses allocated to each of the reportable segments. Total Company selling, general and administrative expenses increased 15% during fiscal 2006 due in part to the impact of equity based compensation, which represented 8 percentage points of the total increase. The Company recorded $237.3 million for equity based compensation during fiscal 2006 compared to $10.1 million in the comparable prior year periods. See the Overview section above and Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated 41 Table of Contents Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. In addition, operating earnings during fiscal 2006 were adversely impacted by the following: increased incentive compensation expense of approximately $38.2 million due to improved operating performance; incremental selling, general and administrative expenses associated with the One Cardinal Health initiative to streamline the Companys operations and develop new capabilities in shared services, which are expected to favorably impact costs across the Company in the future; and increased legal expenses. The Company expects selling, general and administrative expenses to grow at a slower rate in fiscal 2007 due in part to the significant changes made to the Companys equity compensation program resulting in reductions in equity based compensation, benefits received from the upfront investments related to the One Cardinal Health initiative and disciplined expense control. Total Company operating earnings decreased 22% during fiscal 2005 as a result of declining operating earnings in each of the Companys reportable segments. The Companys gross margins were dampened primarily by the following: the Pharmaceutical Distribution business was impacted by reduced branded vendor margins driven primarily by changes in branded pharmaceutical manufacturers sales and pricing practices (see the Overview section for further discussion) and competitive pricing; the Medical Products and Services segment was impacted by an increased mix of lower margin distribution business, competitive pricing and increased raw material and fuel costs; the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment was impacted by continued operational issues adversely affecting manufacturing efficiencies within; and the Clinical Technologies and Services segment was impacted by a lengthened sales and installation cycle, new product launch delays and increased competition within the Pyxis products business. Total Company operating earnings were also adversely affected by the unfavorable impact related to special items of $218.0 million in fiscal 2005. These increased costs related to the Companys global restructuring program associated with its One Cardinal Health initiative, the SEC investigation and Audit Committee internal review and related matters, and the integration of certain acquisitions, which were partially offset by settlements received in antitrust and vitamin litigation (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). In addition, the Company recorded $113.7 million for asset impairments during fiscal 2005 (see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). Total Company operating earnings for fiscal 2005 were impacted by the favorable impact of approximately $31.7 million from reductions in the LIFO reserve, primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories, lower inventory levels and lower price increases related to branded pharmaceutical inventories. Total Company operating earnings for fiscal 2005 were also impacted by the unfavorable impact of the following: an increase in profit sharing expense of approximately $38.8 million compared to fiscal 2004; an increase in incentive compensation expense of approximately $37.0 million compared to fiscal 2004; expenses of approximately $28.2 million within the Medical Products and Services segment related to the estimated costs of defending or settling outstanding claims as well as pursuing insurance recoveries related to the latex litigation; purchase accounting adjustments related to the Alaris acquisition, which included an inventory valuation adjustment to fair value, and the adjusted, higher cost inventory being sold, adversely affecting gross margins by approximately $23.6 million; 42 Table of Contents product line rationalization and inventory and accounts receivable reserve adjustments within the Pyxis products business of approximately $30.3 million; an increase in inventory reserves within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment of approximately $14.7 million related to a generic manufacturers bankruptcy and $10.0 million related to slow moving inventory; and an increase in audit and audit related fees of approximately $7.5 million compared to fiscal 2004 due to increased costs associated with complying with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, expanded audit procedures and a revision in the allocation of audit and audit related fees to fiscal periods. Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segments operating earnings were flat in fiscal 2006. Operating earnings during fiscal 2006 include a LIFO reserve reduction of approximately $26.0 million primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories. Operating earnings during fiscal 2006 benefited from the following: the segments revenue growth of 11% during fiscal 2006; the year over year positive impact of signed distribution service agreements; strong earnings from generic products; strong branded inflation within the portion of the segments business that remains contingent on price increases; and the addition of new vendors to the segments National Logistics Center. These benefits were offset by competitive pressures impacting selling margin, the correction of an error, as described in detail below, and a reserve of $10.0 million related to excess inventory from a particular pharmaceutical manufacturer. During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company discovered that it had inadvertently and erroneously failed to process credits owed to a vendor in prior years. After a thorough review, the Company determined that it had failed to process similar credits for a limited number of additional vendors. These processing failures, specific to a limited area of vendor credits, resulted from system programming, interface and data entry errors relating to these vendor credits which occurred over a period of years. As a result, the Company recorded a charge of $31.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting the credits owed to these vendors. Of this charge, approximately $14.2 million related to fiscal 2005, approximately $11.3 million related to fiscal 2004 and approximately $6.3 million related to fiscal 2003 and prior. In connection with this matter, the Company implemented an action plan that has addressed the issues related to the error. The Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services operating earnings decreased 5% during fiscal 2005 primarily as a result of reduced branded vendor margins resulting from changes in branded pharmaceutical manufacturers sales and pricing practices, as discussed above in the Overview section, and competitive pricing pressures. Branded pharmaceutical manufacturers had changed their sales practices by restricting product available for purchase by pharmaceutical wholesalers. In addition, branded manufacturers product pricing practices were less predictable, as the frequency of price increases slowed and the amounts decreased versus historical levels. For fiscal 2005, pharmaceutical price increases for the trailing twelve month period were approximately 4.9% compared to 6.2% in fiscal 2004. In addition, operating earnings during fiscal 2005 were adversely impacted by approximately $14.7 million for inventory reserves related to a generic manufacturers bankruptcy, approximately $10.0 million related to slow moving inventory reserves and approximately $7.8 million as a result of inventory rationalization of certain health and beauty care products. The decrease in this segments operating earnings was partially offset by $31.7 million from reductions in the LIFO reserve primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories, lower inventory levels and lower price increases related to branded pharmaceutical inventories. 43 Table of Contents Operating earnings were also impacted by improved margins from generic products and expense control within the Pharmaceutical Distribution business which resulted in lowering selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. Medical Products and Services. The Medical Products and Services segments operating earnings increased 4% during fiscal 2006 primarily due to the following: favorable year over year comparison resulting from a $28.2 million latex litigation charge taken during fiscal 2005; revenue growth of 2% during fiscal 2006; favorable product mix within the distribution business from private label and branded products; manufacturing cost reductions; expense control, partially related to the Companys global restructuring program; and strong international earnings growth in Canada. The Medical Products and Services segments operating earnings were adversely impacted by increased selling, general and administrative expenses allocated to the segment. In addition, the Specialty Distribution business largest customer began self distribution on January 1, 2006, which impacted operating earnings growth during the second half of fiscal 2006. Operating earnings were negatively impacted by approximately 1 percentage point during fiscal 2006 within this segment primarily due to the loss of this customer. The Medical Products and Services segments operating earnings decreased 6% during fiscal 2005 primarily due to the following: pricing pressures related to self manufactured products; increased raw material and fuel costs; increased mix of lower margin distributed products; competitive pricing on a large GPO contract for convertors products; and adjustments of approximately $28.2 million for the estimated costs of defending or settling outstanding claims as well as pursuing insurance recoveries related to the latex litigation. Selling, general and administrative expenses grew 11% during fiscal 2005 primarily due to the charge for latex litigation described above and higher personnel costs associated with the overall business growth. These items were partially offset by revenue growth of 7%, manufacturing efficiencies, expense control related to the Companys global restructuring program and incremental operating earnings from new customers. Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments operating earnings decreased 3% during fiscal 2006 primarily due to the following: the impact of competitive pressures and pricing within the Nuclear Pharmacy Services business; increased selling, general and administrative expenses allocated to the segment; the stronger U.S. dollar adversely impacting operating earnings growth by approximately 2 percentage points; and the sterile manufacturing business operating below optimum capacity which was offset by improved customer terms for services and a $14.0 million payment from an ongoing customer for commitments through December 31, 2005 and for the cancellation of a future commitment. The Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments operating earnings decreased 25% during fiscal 2005 primarily due to the continued delays in opening new facilities and existing facilities operating below optimum capacity within the Companys Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business. Operating earnings were also adversely impacted by approximately $8.0 million related to the write down of inventory within the Biotechnology and Sterile Life Sciences business. 44 Table of Contents The operating earnings declines were partially offset by the strength of certain softgel and controlled release products, and the year over year impact of acquisitions of approximately 6%. The impact of foreign exchange rates on operating earnings did not significantly affect the fiscal 2005 growth rates above. This takes into consideration the fiscal 2005 rate fluctuations due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar and the fiscal 2004 constant rate adjustment. See footnote 6 to the table in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion as it relates to the fiscal 2004 constant rate adjustment and the change made in fiscal 2005. Clinical Technologies and Services. The Clinical Technologies and Services segments operating earnings increased 56% during fiscal 2006 primarily due to the following: revenue growth of 11% during fiscal 2006; higher margins due to favorable year over year sales mix; favorable manufacturing efficiencies; improvements in the sales and installation cycles; integration synergies from the Alaris acquisition; and favorable accounts receivable reserve adjustments of $8.0 million recorded during the third quarter of fiscal 2006 due to improved credit and collection processes and historical write off trends. Charges of $23.6 million during fiscal 2005 related to purchase accounting adjustments from the Alaris transaction also contributed to the favorable year over year comparison. The $23.6 million charge represented 14 percentage points of the fiscal 2006 operating earnings increase. The purchase accounting adjustments during fiscal 2005 included an inventory valuation adjustment to fair value, with the adjusted, higher cost inventory being sold during the first two quarters. The Clinical Technologies and Services segments operating earnings decreased 24% during fiscal 2005 primarily from decreased operating earnings within the Pyxis products business which was impacted by: decreased revenue of 17% for fiscal 2005; lower unit margins due to year over year sales mix; more aggressive price discounting in the market place; a product line rationalization and inventory and accounts receivable reserve adjustments of approximately $30.3 million; and the positive segment allocation adjustments recorded during fiscal 2004 of $21 million for the estimated interest income that the business would have earned from assets sold as part of the leased asset portfolio sales (the proceeds from the sales were returned to Corporate for general corporate requirements). See footnote 6 to the table in Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion as it relates to the fiscal 2004 interest income allocation and the change made in fiscal 2005. The Alaris acquisition improved operating earnings for this segment by approximately 23% for fiscal 2005. The results of operations from this acquisition are not included in the prior period amounts. Operating results from Alaris, while incremental to the segments results year over year, were adversely impacted by the effect of purchase accounting adjustments recorded during the first two quarters of fiscal 2005. These adjustments included the inventory valuation adjustment noted above, which adversely affected gross margins by approximately $23.6 million. Impairment Charges and Other See Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding impairment charges and other. 45 Table of Contents Special Items The following is a summary of the Companys special items: Fiscal Year Ended June 30, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Restructuring costs $ 60.7 $ 159.4 $ 35.7 Merger related costs 26.5 46.4 43.9 Litigation settlements, net (19.0 ) (42.3 ) (62.3 ) Other 26.5 54.5 37.9 Total special items $ 94.7 $ 218.0 $ 55.2 See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detail of the Companys special items during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other increased $1.7 million during fiscal 2006. Interest expense was relatively constant for fiscal 2006 as compared to the prior year. Interest expense and other increased $23.2 million during fiscal 2005 primarily from increased interest expense of $55.0 million due to increased borrowing levels and interest rates. The Company manages its exposure to interest rates using various hedging strategies (see Notes 1 and 5 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The $55.0 million increase in interest expense during fiscal 2005 was partially offset by the Company recording the minority interest impact of approximately $19.4 million for certain impairment charges within the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segments Oral Technologies business. These impairment charges were recorded within impairment charges and other on the consolidated statements of earnings during fiscal 2005. See Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding impairment charges and other. Provision for Income Taxes The provisions for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of change in accounting were 32.2%, 34.6% and 31.8% of pretax earnings in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Generally, fluctuations in the effective tax rate are due to changes within foreign and state effective tax rates resulting from the Companys business mix and changes in the tax impact of special items, which may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item and the taxing jurisdiction. The Companys effective tax rate reflects tax benefits derived from increasing operations outside the United States, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. The Company has tax incentive agreements in several non U.S. tax jurisdictions which will expire in fiscal years 2009 through 2024 if not renewed. The Company does not believe that potential changes from existing tax incentive agreements will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. The Companys fiscal 2006 provision for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations was $590.3 million and the effective tax rate was 32.2%. The fiscal 2006 effective tax rate benefited by 0.3 percentage points from equity based compensation expense, which is deductible at a tax rate higher than the average tax rate. The fiscal 2006 effective tax rate was adversely impacted by 0.1 percentage points due to the non deductibility of certain special items. The Companys fiscal 2005 provision for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations was $586.0 million and the effective tax rate was 34.6%. The fiscal 2005 effective tax rate was adversely impacted by 1.6 percentage points due to expenses related to the repatriation under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the AJCA) and 0.6 percentage points due to the non deductibility of certain special items. The tax rate during fiscal 2005 was not significantly impacted by equity based compensation as the Company implemented FAS No. 123(R) applying the modified prospective method in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. 46 Table of Contents A provision of the AJCA created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed income earned abroad by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from non U.S. subsidiaries. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company determined that it would repatriate $500 million of accumulated non U.S. earnings in fiscal 2006 pursuant to the repatriation provisions of the AJCA and the Company recorded a related tax liability of $26.3 million as of June 30, 2005. The $500 million is the maximum repatriation available to the Company under the repatriation provisions of the AJCA. During fiscal 2006, the Company repatriated $500 million of accumulated foreign earnings in accordance with its plan adopted during fiscal 2005. An additional tax liability of $0.4 million was recorded during fiscal 2006 due to new state legislation with respect to the AJCA, bringing the Companys tax liability related to the repatriation recorded through June 30, 2006 to $26.7 million. Uses of repatriated funds include domestic expenditures related to non executive salaries, capital asset investments and other permitted activities. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Loss from Discontinued Operations See Note 21 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the Companys discontinued operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND SENSITIVE ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that can have a significant impact on the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and require use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing the Companys consolidated financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Allowance for doubtful accounts Trade receivables are amounts owed to the Company through its operating activities and are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company also provides financing to various customers. Such financing arrangements range from one to ten years at interest rates that generally are subject to fluctuation. These financings may be collateralized, guaranteed by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivables are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and are included in other assets. Extending credit terms and calculating the required allowance for doubtful accounts involve the use of judgment by the Companys management. In determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, which includes general and specific reserves, the Company reviews accounts receivable aging, industry trends, customer financial strength, credit standing, historical write off trends and payment history to assess the probability of collection. The Company continuously monitors the collectibility of its receivable portfolio by analyzing the aging of its accounts receivable, assessing credit worthiness of its customers and evaluating the impact of changes in economic conditions that may impact credit risks. If the frequency or severity of customer defaults changes due to changes in customers financial condition or general economic conditions, the Companys allowance for uncollectible accounts may require adjustment. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $134.8 million and $122.4 million at June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. This allowance represented 2.6% and 3.0% of customer receivables at June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of revenue was 0.17%, 0.16% and 0.20% at June 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts was reduced by $24.8 million, $22.5 million and $21.8 million in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, for customer deductions and write offs and was increased/(decreased) by additional provisions of $28.7 million, $8.7 million and $(0.1) million in 47 Table of Contents fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. A hypothetical 0.1% increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables to the fiscal 2006 reserve would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $5.2 million. Reserve methodologies are validated annually based on historical losses and economic, business and market trends. In addition, reserves are reviewed quarterly and updated if unusual circumstances or trends are present. The Company believes that the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal 2006 are appropriate and consistent with historical methodologies employed. At this time, the Company is not aware of any internal process or customer issues that might lead to a significant future increase in the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net revenue. The total Company receivable balance greater than 60 days past due exceeded the total reserve balance by $2.4 million or 2% at June 30, 2006. The total reserve at June 30, 2005 exceeded the total Company receivable balance greater than 60 days past due at that same date. See Schedule II included in this Form 10 K which includes a rollforward of activity for these allowance reserves. Inventories A substantial portion of inventories (approximately 73% in 2006 and 67% in 2005) are stated at the lower of cost, using the LIFO method, or market. These inventories are included within the core distribution facilities and the National Logistics Center within the Companys Pharmaceutical Distribution business and are primarily merchandise inventories. The LIFO impact on the consolidated statement of earnings in a given year is dependent on pharmaceutical price inflation and the level of inventory. Prices for branded pharmaceuticals and consumer products are primarily inflationary, which results in an increase in cost of products sold, whereas prices for generic pharmaceuticals are deflationary, which results in a decrease in cost of products sold. Under the LIFO method, it is assumed that the most recent inventory purchases are the first items sold. As such, the Company uses LIFO to better match costs and revenues. Therefore, reductions in the overall inventory levels resulting from declining brand pharmaceutical and consumer product inventory levels generally will result in a decrease in future cost of goods sold, as the remaining inventory will be held at a lower cost due to the inflationary environment. Conversely, reductions in the overall inventory levels created by declining generic pharmaceutical inventory levels would generally increase future cost of goods sold, as the remaining inventory will be held at a higher cost due to the deflationary environment. In fiscal 2006, the LIFO credit of $26.0 million was primarily due to price deflation in generic pharmaceutical inventories. The LIFO credit in fiscal 2005 of $31.7 million was primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories, lower inventory levels and lower price increases related to branded pharmaceutical inventories. The remaining inventory is primarily stated at the lower of cost, using the first in, first out (FIFO) method, or market. If the Company had used the FIFO method of inventory valuation for all inventory, which approximates current replacement cost, inventories would not have changed in fiscal 2006 and would have increased $26.0 million in 2005. Due to continued deflation in generic pharmaceutical inventories, inventories at LIFO are approximately $1.0 million higher than its FIFO value as of June 30, 2006. However, the Companys policy is not to record inventories in excess of its current market value. Below is a reconciliation of FIFO inventory to LIFO inventory: June 30, (in millions) 2006 2005 FIFO inventory $ 7,714.2 $ 7,275.2 LIFO reserve valuation (26.0 ) Total inventory $ 7,714.2 $ 7,249.2 48 Table of Contents Inventories recorded on the Companys consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory which were $131.2 million and $127.7 million, respectively, at June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005. The Company reserves for inventory obsolescence using estimates based on historical experiences, sales trends, specific categories of inventory and age of on hand inventory. If actual conditions are less favorable than the Companys assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required, however these would not be expected to have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Goodwill and Other Intangibles The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Under SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Accordingly, the Company does not amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily customer relationships and patents and trademarks, continue to be amortized over their useful lives. In conducting the impairment test, the fair value of the Companys reporting units is compared to its carrying amount including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, further analysis is performed to assess impairment. The Companys impairment analysis is based on a review of the price/earnings ratio for publicly traded companies similar in nature, scope and size or a discounted cash flow analysis. The methods and assumptions used to test impairment have been consistently applied for the periods presented. The discount rate used for impairment testing is based on the risk free rate plus an adjustment for risk factors. The use of alternative estimates, peer groups or changes in the industry, or adjusting the discount rate used could affect the estimated fair value of the assets and potentially result in impairment. Any identified impairment would result in an adjustment to the Companys results of operations. The Company performed its annual impairment tests in fiscal 2006 and 2005, neither of which resulted in the recognition of any impairment charges. Decreasing the price/earnings ratio of competitors used for impairment testing by one point or increasing the discount rate in the discounted cash flow analysis used for impairment testing by 1% would not have indicated impairment for any of the Companys reporting units for fiscal 2006 or 2005. An increase in the price/earnings ratio of competitors used for impairment testing or a decrease in the discount rate in the discounted cash flow analysis would not adversely affect the computed fair value of the reporting units. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill. Business Combinations Assumptions and estimates are used in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of the Companys acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets which require management to use significant judgment in determining fair value. The Company typically utilizes third party valuation experts for this process. In addition, current and future amortization expense for such intangibles is impacted by purchase price allocations as well as the assessment of estimated useful lives of such intangibles, excluding goodwill. The Company believes the assets recorded and the useful lives established are appropriate based upon current facts and circumstances. In conjunction with the review of a transaction, the valuation experts assess the status of the acquired companys research and development projects to determine the existence of in process research and development (IPR&D). The Company has not historically recorded significant costs related to IPR&D. However, in conjunction with the acquisition of Alaris, the Company was required to estimate the fair value of acquired IPR&D which required selecting an appropriate discount rate and estimating future cash flows for each project. Management also assessed the current status of development, nature and timing of efforts to complete such development, uncertainties and other factors when estimating the fair value. Costs were not assigned to IPR&D unless future development was probable. Once the fair value was determined, an asset was established and, as 49 Table of Contents required by U.S. GAAP, immediately written off as a special item in the Companys consolidated statement of earnings. The Company recorded $12.7 million as a special item in fiscal 2004 representing an estimate of Alaris IPR&D (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Special Items The Companys special items consist primarily of costs that relate to the integration of previously acquired companies or costs of restructuring operations to improve productivity. Integration costs from acquisitions accounted for under the pooling of interests method have been recorded in accordance with EITF Issue No. 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs incurred in a Restructuring), and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 100, Restructuring and Impairment Charges. Certain costs related to these acquisitions, such as employee and lease terminations and other facility exit costs, were recognized at the date the integration plan was adopted by management. Certain other integration costs that did not meet the criteria for accrual at the commitment date have been expensed as the integration plan has been implemented. The costs associated with integrating acquired companies under the purchase method are recorded in accordance with EITF Issue No. 95 3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination. Certain costs to be incurred by the Company as the acquirer, such as employee and lease terminations and other facility exit costs, are recognized at the date the integration plan is committed to and adopted by management. Certain other integration costs that do not meet the criteria for accrual at the commitment date are expensed as the integration plan is implemented. At the beginning of the third quarter of fiscal 2003, the Company implemented SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, to account for costs incurred in restructuring activities. Under this standard, a liability for most types of exit costs is recognized as incurred. As discussed above, the Company previously accounted for costs associated with restructuring activities under EITF Issue No. 94 3, which required the Company to recognize a liability for restructuring costs on the date of the commitment to an exit plan. The majority of the special items related to acquisitions and restructurings can be classified in one of the following categories: employee related costs, exit costs (including lease termination costs), asset impairments and other integration costs. Employee costs include severance and termination benefits. Lease termination costs include lease cancellation fees, forfeited deposits and remaining payments due under existing lease agreements less estimated sublease income. Other facility exit costs include costs to move equipment or inventory out of a facility as well as other costs incurred to shut down a facility. Asset impairment costs include the reduction in value of the Companys assets as a result of the integration or restructuring activities. Other integration costs primarily include charges directly related to the integration plan such as consulting costs related to information systems and employee benefit plans as well as relocation and travel costs directly associated with the integration plan. The Company also records settlements of significant lawsuits that are infrequent, non recurring or unusual in nature as special items. In addition, costs related to legal fees and document preservation and production costs incurred in connection with the SEC investigation and the Audit Committee internal review and related matters are also classified as special items. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Vendor Reserves The Company maintains reserves to cover areas of exposure with its vendors. In determining appropriate vendor reserves, the Company assesses historical experience and current outstanding claims. The Company has established various levels of reserves based on the type of claim and status of review. The Company researches and resolves various types of contested transactions based on discussions with vendors, Company policy and 50 Table of Contents findings of research performed. Though the transaction types are relatively consistent, the Company has periodically refined its estimate methodology over the past few years by updating the reserve estimate percentages based upon historical experiences. Changes to the estimate percentages have resulted in a financial impact to the Companys cost of products sold in the period in which the change was made. At June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005, vendor reserves were $99.3 million and $103.1 million, respectively. Approximately 69% of the vendor reserve at June 30, 2006 and June 30, 2005 pertained to the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment. Fluctuations in the reserve balance are also caused by the variations of outstanding claims from period to period, timing of settlements and specific vendor issues, such as bankruptcies (significant events would be described above in the operating earnings discussion of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Though vendor transactions remain relatively consistent from period to period, unforeseen events such as the deterioration in the financial condition of a large vendor or a settlement of numerous outstanding claims could cause the reserve to fluctuate, and thus, have a financial impact on the periods financial results. At any given time, there are outstanding items in various stages of research and resolution. The ultimate outcome of certain claims may be different than the Companys original estimate and may require adjustment. However, the Company believes reserves recorded for such disputes are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. Equity Based Compensation During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) applying the modified prospective method. This Statement requires all equity based payments to employees, including grants of options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. The fair values of options granted after the Company adopted this Statement were determined using a lattice valuation model and all options granted prior to adoption of this Statement were valued using a Black Scholes model. The Companys estimate of an options fair value is dependent on a complex estimation process that requires the estimation of future uncertain events. These estimates which are entered within the option valuation model include, but are not limited to, stock price volatility, the expected option life, expected dividend yield and option forfeiture rates. Effective with all options granted during fiscal 2006, the Company estimates its future stock price volatility based on implied volatility from traded options on the Companys Common Shares and historical volatility over a period of time commensurate with the contractual term of the option grant (7 years). The Company analyzed historical data to estimate option exercise behaviors and employee terminations to estimate the expected option life and forfeiture rates. The Company calculated separate option valuations for three separate groups of employees with similar historical exercise behaviors. Once employee stock option values are determined, current accounting practices do not permit them to be changed, even if the estimates used in the valuation model are different from actual results. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the Company to compare its estimated option forfeiture rates to actual forfeiture rates and record any adjustments as necessary. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. Income Taxes The Companys income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and income tax reserves reflect managements assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the financial statements. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. The Company had net deferred income tax assets of $461.1 million and $300.4 million at June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company also had net deferred income tax liabilities of $1,679.1 million and $1,536.3 million at June 30, 51 Table of Contents 2006 and 2005, respectively. Included in the net deferred income tax assets are net federal, state and local, and international loss and credit carryforwards at June 30, 2006 and 2005 of $84.9 million and $82.6 million, respectively. The Company has established a net valuation allowance of $34.4 million at June 30, 2006 against certain deferred tax assets, which primarily relates to state and international loss and credit carryforwards for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. Expiring carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted annually. After application of the valuation allowances described above, the Company anticipates no limitations will apply with respect to utilization of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described above. In addition, the Company has established an estimated liability for federal, state and non U.S. income tax exposures that arise and meet the criteria for accrual under SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company prepares and files tax returns based on its interpretation of tax laws and regulations and records estimates based on these judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business, the Companys tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation, regulation and or as concluded through the various jurisdictions tax court systems. The Company has developed a methodology for estimating its tax liability related to such matters and has consistently followed such methodology from period to period. The liability amounts for such matters are based on an evaluation of the underlying facts and circumstances, a thorough research of the technical merits of the Companys arguments and an assessment of the probability of the Company prevailing in its arguments. In all cases, the Company considers previous findings of the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company generally consults with external tax advisers in reaching its conclusions. Amounts accrued for a particular period are adjusted when a significant change in facts or circumstances has occurred. The Company believes that its estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and tax contingency reserves are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop a different estimate and the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued. In addition to income mix from geographical regions, the significant assumptions and estimates described in the preceding paragraphs are important contributors to the ultimate effective tax rate in each year. Although not material to the effective tax rate for the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2006, if any of the Companys assumptions or estimates were to change, an increase/decrease in the Companys effective tax rate by 1% on earnings before income taxes, discontinued operations and cumulative effect of change in accounting would have caused income tax expense to increase/decrease by $18.4 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. Loss Contingencies The Company accrues for contingencies related to litigation in accordance with SFAS No. 5, which requires the Company to assess contingencies to determine degree of probability and range of possible settlement. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in the Companys consolidated financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the settlement can be reasonably estimated. Assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. The Company regularly reviews contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of ultimate settlement may differ from these estimates. Self Insurance Accruals The Company is self insured for employee medical and dental insurance programs. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $24.1 million and $26.0 million for estimated costs related to outstanding claims at June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending 52 Table of Contents claims, administrative fees and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. These estimates are based on the Companys assessment of outstanding claims, historical analysis and current payment trends. The Company records an estimate for the claims incurred but not reported using an estimated lag period. This lag period assumption has been consistently applied for the periods presented. If the lag period was hypothetically adjusted by a period equal to a half month, the impact on earnings would be $5.5 million. If the amount of claims, medical or dental costs increase beyond what was estimated, the reserve might not be sufficient and additional expense could be required. However, the Company believes the liabilities recorded are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. Medical and dental insurance expense was $164.8 million, $162.5 million and $140.8 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Through a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, the Company has certain deductibles or is self insured for various risks including general liability, product liability, pharmacist professional liability, auto liability, property and workers compensation. However, claims in excess of certain limits are insured with commercial insurers. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $76.3 million and $66.4 million for anticipated costs related to liability, property and workers compensation at June 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, defense costs, claims adjustment costs and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. For certain types of exposures the Company uses third parties to assist in developing the estimate of expected ultimate costs to settle each claim which is based on specific information related to each claim. For claims incurred but not reported the liabilities are calculated by outside actuaries and are derived in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practices. The amount of ultimate liability in respect to these matters is dependent on future contingent events that cannot be predicted with certainty and may differ from these estimates. Although the Company believes that liability estimates are appropriate based on information available at June 30, 2006, it is possible, based on generally accepted actuarial analysis, that under adverse conditions the ultimate liability could exceed recorded expected liabilities as of June 30, 2006 by as much as $4.2 million. The insurance expense for general liability, product liability, pharmacist professional liability, auto liability, property and workers compensation was $77.9 million, $75.0 million and $59.8 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Sources and Uses of Cash The following table summarizes the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004: Fiscal Years Ended June 30, (in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Net cash provided by/(used in): Operating activities $ 2,140.3 $ 2,842.8 $ 2,623.7 Investing activities ($ 1,187.2 ) ($ 876.1 ) ($ 2,439.4 ) Financing activities ($ 1,032.2 ) ($ 1,657.3 ) ($ 815.7 ) Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2006 totaled approximately $2.1 billion, a decrease of $702.5 million when compared to fiscal 2005. The year over year decrease was primarily a result of the net proceeds received during fiscal 2005 of $550 million under the Companys committed receivables sales facility program. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding this program. During fiscal 2006, accounts payable increased approximately $1.5 billion, which was partially offset by increased inventories of $368.2 million and increased accounts receivable of approximately $929.3 million during this period. The accounts payable and related receivable and inventory increases are due to the new sales volume from an existing large retail chain customer and the timing of inventory purchases from vendors in the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment. Net cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2005 totaled approximately $2.8 billion, an increase of $219.1 million when compared to fiscal 2004. The year over year increase was primarily a result of the net 53 Table of Contents proceeds received during fiscal 2005 of $550 million under the Companys committed receivables sales facility program. Overall, the operating cash flow benefits were adversely affected by a $408.9 million decrease in earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting. A significant portion of the earnings decrease was due to non cash asset impairments of approximately $185.4 million. For further discussion of changes in the Companys earnings from continuing operations, see the Results of Operations section above. Investing activities. Cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2006 primarily represents the Companys purchase of $398.6 million of short term investments classified as available for sale and capital spending of approximately $443.2 million to develop and enhance the Companys infrastructure. In addition, during fiscal 2006, the Company used cash of approximately $362.2 million to complete acquisitions which expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry and are primarily associated with the acquisitions of Dohmen and ParMed within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment and Denver Biomedical and the remaining minority interest of Source Medical within the Medical Products and Services segment. See Acquisitions and Divestitures within Item 1 Business of this 10 K for further information regarding the Companys acquisitions. Cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2005 and 2004 primarily represents the Companys use of cash to complete acquisitions and capital spending to develop and enhance the Companys infrastructure, including facilities, information systems and other machinery and equipment. During fiscal 2005, the majority of the cash used in investing activities related to capital spending and costs associated with the acquisitions of Alaris and Geodax. During fiscal 2005, cash used in investing activities also included approximately $99.8 million related to the purchase of investment securities available for sale. See Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the Companys investments. The majority of the cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2004 was related to costs associated with the acquisitions of Alaris, Intercare and Medicap. Financing activities. The Companys financing activities utilized cash of $1,032.2 million, $1,657.3 million and $815.7 million during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The Companys financing activities used cash of $1,032.2 million during fiscal 2006 primarily due to the $1,499.9 million utilized to repurchase the Companys Common Shares as authorized by its Board of Directors (see Share Repurchase Program below for additional information). In addition, the Company utilized cash to purchase certain buildings and equipment which were under capital lease agreements reflected in the reduction of long term obligations of $306.1 million and pay dividends on its Common Shares of approximately $101.8 million. The above uses of cash were partially offset by $500 million received from the issuance of Notes in December of 2005 (net proceeds of $496.7 million) and the proceeds received from the shares issued under various employee stock plans of approximately $240.8 million. Cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2005 primarily reflects the Companys decisions to retire its commercial paper and certain debt assumed in the Alaris acquisition and repurchase its Common Shares as authorized by its Board of Directors. During fiscal 2005, the Company utilized $500.3 million to repurchase its Common Shares. Cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2004 primarily reflects the Companys decision to repurchase approximately $1.5 billion of its shares as authorized by its Board of Directors. These cash outflows for fiscal 2004 were partially offset by net proceeds of approximately $512.8 million received from the Companys debt facilities and proceeds of approximately $216.7 million received from shares issued under various employee stock plans. International Cash The Companys cash balance of approximately $1.3 billion as of June 30, 2006 includes $362.9 million of cash held by its subsidiaries outside of the United States. Although the vast majority of cash held outside the United States is available for repatriation, doing so subjects it to United States federal income tax. 54 Table of Contents Share Repurchases During fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Companys Board of Directors approved, and management completed, several share repurchase programs. The Company repurchased approximately $3.5 billion of shares, in the aggregate, through these share repurchase programs over this period of time. During fiscal 2006, the Company repurchased approximately 21.9 million shares having an average price paid per share of $68.39. During fiscal 2005, the Company repurchased approximately 8.8 million shares having an average price paid per share of $56.76. During fiscal 2004, the Company repurchased approximately 24.2 million shares having an average price paid per share of $62.03. The repurchased shares were placed into treasury to be used for general corporate purposes. See Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities within Item 5 Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities within this Form 10 K for further information regarding the Companys most recent share repurchase program. Capital Resources In addition to cash, the Companys sources of liquidity include a $1 billion commercial paper program backed by a $1 billion revolving credit facility, a $150 million extendible commercial note program and a committed receivable sales facility program with a capacity to sell $800 million in receivables. See Note 8 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Companys committed receivables sales facility program. The Company initiated the $1 billion commercial paper program in August 2006, which replaced its former $1.5 billion commercial paper program. As of June 30, 2006, the Company did not have any outstanding borrowings from the commercial paper program. The Company entered into a $1 billion revolving credit agreement in November 2005, which replaced two $750 million revolving credit facilities. This new facility is available for general corporate purposes. The Company also has other short term credit facilities of approximately $323.6 million, of which $163.5 million was outstanding as of June 30, 2006. On December 15, 2005, the Company issued $500 million of 5.85% Notes due 2017. The proceeds of the debt issuance were used for general corporate purposes, which included working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, repayment of indebtedness and repurchases of equity securities. During fiscal 2001, the Company entered into an agreement to periodically sell trade receivables to a special purpose accounts receivable and financing entity (the Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity), which is exclusively engaged in purchasing trade receivables from, and making loans to, the Company. The Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity, which is consolidated by the Company as it is the primary beneficiary of the variable interest entity, issued $250 million and $400 million in preferred variable debt securities to parties not affiliated with the Company during fiscal 2004 and 2001, respectively. These preferred debt securities are classified as long term obligations, less current portion and other short term obligations in the Companys consolidated balance sheet. From time to time, the Company considers and engages in acquisition transactions in order to expand its role as a leading provider of services to the healthcare industry. The Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its role as a provider of products and services to the healthcare industry through all its reportable segments. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, the Company may need to enter into funding arrangements for such mergers or acquisitions. The Company currently believes that, based upon existing cash, operating cash flows, available capital resources (as discussed above) and other available market transactions, it has adequate capital resources at its disposal to fund currently anticipated capital expenditures, business growth and expansion, contractual obligations and current and projected debt service requirements, including those related to business combinations. Debt Ratings/Covenants The Companys senior debt credit ratings from S&P, Moodys and Fitch are BBB, Baa2 and BBB, respectively, the commercial paper ratings are A 2, P 2 and F2, respectively, and the ratings outlooks are stable. 55 Table of Contents The Companys various borrowing facilities and long term debt, except for the preferred debt securities as discussed below, are free of any financial covenants other than minimum net worth which cannot fall below $5.0 billion at any time. As of June 30, 2006, the Company was in compliance with this covenant. The Companys preferred debt securities contain a minimum adjusted tangible net worth covenant (adjusted tangible net worth cannot fall below $2.5 billion) and certain financial ratio covenants. As of June 30, 2006, the Company was in compliance with these covenants. A breach of any of these covenants would be followed by a grace period during which the Company may discuss remedies with the security holders, or extinguish the securities, without causing an event of default. Interest Rate and Currency Risk Management The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts, currency options and interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to cash flow variability. The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to protect the value of its existing foreign currency assets and liabilities and the value of its debt. See Notes 1 and 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives, including foreign currency hedging instruments. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS As of June 30, 2006, the Companys contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows: Payments Due by Period (in millions) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total On Balance Sheet: Long term debt (1) $ 224.7 $ 874.0 $ 490.4 $ 1,213.9 $ 2,803.0 Interest on long term debt 170.2 316.0 217.0 542.9 1,246.1 Capital lease obligations (2) 6.9 10.2 8.8 7.7 33.6 Other long term liabilities (3) 3.0 5.6 5.8 89.3 103.7 Off Balance Sheet: Operating leases (4) 99.5 165.2 116.8 149.4 530.9 Purchase obligations (5) 632.0 32.8 7.6 3.0 675.4 Total financial obligations $ 1,136.3 $ 1,403.8 $ 846.4 $ 2,006.2 $ 5,392.7 (1) Represents maturities of the Companys long term debt obligations excluding capital lease obligations described below. See Note 4 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (2) Represents maturities of the Companys capital lease obligations included within long term debt on the Companys balance sheet and the related estimated future interest payments. (3) Represents cash outflows by period for certain of the Companys long term liabilities in which cash outflows could be reasonably estimated. The primary items included are estimates of the Companys pension and other post retirement benefit obligations as well as accrued marketing fees and other long term liabilities. Certain long term liabilities, such as deferred taxes, have been excluded from the table above as there are no cash outflows associated with the liabilities or the timing of the cash outflows cannot reasonably be estimated. (4) Represents minimum rental payments and the related estimated future interest payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms as described in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (5) Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and specifying all significant terms, including the following: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which the Company is obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to 56 Table of Contents purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally cancelled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from the Companys total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. The significant amount disclosed within fiscal 2007, as compared to other periods, primarily represents obligations to purchase inventories within the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS See Note 8 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of off balance sheet arrangements. OTHER Recent Financial Accounting Standards. See Note 1 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards. Recent Developments. On August 28, 2006, the Company announced that is has suspended production, sales, repairs and installation of its Alaris&reg; SE infusion pump after approximately 1,300 units were seized by the FDA. On August 15, 2006, the Company initiated a voluntary field corrective action of the product as a result of information indicating that a sensitive keypad posed a risk of key bounce and could lead to over infusion of patients. As part of the field corrective action, the Company sent letters and warning labels to its customers and is currently testing a modification that reduces sensitivity of the keypad. This modification will need to be validated on the product and approved by the FDA. These actions did not require the return of products currently in use by customers and the Company currently has no plans of recalling these products. The Company has stopped manufacturing and distribution of the Alaris SE infusion pumps pending resolution of the issue with the FDA. There have been approximately 140,000 Alaris SE infusion pumps distributed worldwide during the past 12 years and the product line currently represents less than 1% of annual revenue for the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. The Company does not believe that implementation of the modification currently being tested will materially affect the Companys results of operations or financial condition. However, the Company has not completed its testing or received approval from the FDA and if additional remedial actions are deemed necessary by the Company or the FDA, the effect could become material to the Companys results of operations or financial condition. See Note 23 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of additional subsequent events after June 30, 2006. Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The Company is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations as a result of certain market risks. These market risks primarily relate to foreign exchange, interest rate, and commodity related changes. The Company maintains a comprehensive hedging program to manage volatility related to these market exposures. It employs operational, economic, and derivative financial instruments in order to mitigate risk. See Notes 1 and 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Companys use of derivative instruments. Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity. By nature of the Companys global operations, it is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations resulting from foreign exchange rate variation. These exposures are transactional and translational in nature. Since the Company manufactures and sells its products throughout the world, its foreign currency risk is diversified. Principal drivers of this diversified foreign exchange exposure include the European euro, Mexican peso, British pound, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Thai baht. 57 Table of Contents Transactional Exposure The Companys transactional exposure arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than the functional currency of the parent or its subsidiaries. As part of its risk management program, at the end of each fiscal year the Company performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted transactional exposure for the upcoming fiscal year. The 2006 analysis utilizes an implied volatility measurement for each currency to estimate the net potential gain or loss. The 2005 analysis assumed a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening of the U.S dollar. Included in the analysis is the estimated impact of its hedging program, which mitigates the Companys transactional exposure. At June 30, 2006 and 2005, the Company had hedged approximately 44% and 52%, respectively, of its transactional exposures. The following table summarizes the analysis as it relates to the Companys transactional exposure: (in millions) 2006 2005 Net estimated transactional exposure $ 496.8 $ 324.5 Sensitivity gain/loss 41.6 32.5 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (18.4 ) (16.8 ) Estimated net gain/loss $ 23.2 $ 15.7 Translational Exposure The Company also has exposure related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign divisions into U.S dollars, the functional currency of the parent. It performs a similar analysis as described above related to this translational exposure. The Company does not typically hedge any of its translational exposure and no hedging impact was included in the Companys analysis at June 30, 2006 and 2005. The following table summarizes the Companys translational exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening in the U.S dollar: (in millions) 2006 2005 Net estimated translational exposure $ 200.4 $ 187.7 Sensitivity gain/loss $ 20.4 $ 18.8 Interest Rate Sensitivity. The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing and investing activities to maintain liquidity and fund business operations. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions and other factors. The Companys policy is to manage exposures to interest rates using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt as deemed appropriate by management. The Company utilizes interest rate swap instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate movements. As part of its risk management program, the Company annually performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted exposure to interest rates for the following fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. At June 30, 2006 and 2005, the potential increase or decrease in interest expense under this analysis as a result of this hypothetical change was $6.2 million and $4.6 million, respectively. Commodity Price Sensitivity. The Company purchases certain commodities for use in its manufacturing processes, which include latex, heating oil, diesel fuel and polystyrene, among others. The Company typically purchases these commodities at market prices, and as a result, is affected by price fluctuations. As part of its risk management program, the Company performs sensitivity analysis on its forecasted commodity exposure for the following fiscal year. At June 30, 2006 and 2005, the Company had not hedged any of these exposures. The table 58 Table of Contents below summarizes the Companys analysis of these forecasted commodity exposures and a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices as of June 30, 2006 and 2005: (in millions) 2006 2005 Estimated commodity exposure $ 173.7 $ 141.0 Sensitivity gain/loss $ 17.4 $ 14.1 The Company also has exposure to certain energy related commodities, including natural gas and electricity through its normal course of business. These exposures result primarily from operating the Companys distribution, manufacturing, and corporate facilities. In certain deregulated markets, the Company from time to time enters into long term purchase contracts to supply these items at a specific price. 
 
