Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10 K as well as other portions of this Form 10 K. The words believe, expect, anticipate, project and similar expressions, among others, generally identify forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statements were made. The matters discussed in these forward looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied in the forward looking statements. The most significant of these risks, uncertainties and other factors are described in this Form 10 K (including in Item 1A Risk Factors) and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10 K. Except to the limited extent required by applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. PART I Item 1: Business General Cardinal Health, Inc. is an Ohio corporation formed in 1979. As used in this report, the terms the Registrant, the Company and Cardinal Health refer to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. The Company is a leading provider of products and services that improve the safety and productivity of healthcare. Except as otherwise specified, information in this report is provided as of June 30, 2007 (the end of the Companys fiscal year). The description of the Companys business in this Item 1 should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and supplementary data included in this Form 10 K. Reportable Segments Fiscal 2007 Changes to Reportable Segments The Company changed its reportable segments beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2007. As of June 30, 2006, the Company conducted its business within the following four reportable segments: Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services; Medical Products and Services; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services; and Clinical Technologies and Services. Effective the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company began reporting its financial information within the following five reportable segments: Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical; Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical; Clinical Technologies and Services; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services; and Medical Products Manufacturing. During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company committed to plans to sell the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, other than certain generic focused businesses (the segment, excluding the certain generic focused businesses not held for sale, is referred to as the PTS Business). The Company completed the sale of the PTS Business during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. The following is an explanation of the fiscal 2007 changes, if any, from the Companys reportable segments as of June 30, 2006: Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment encompasses the businesses previously within the former Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment, in addition to the nuclear pharmacy, third party logistics support and certain generic focused businesses previously within the former Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment and the therapeutic plasma distribution capabilities previously within the former Medical Products and Services segment. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment encompasses the Companys medical products distribution business and the assembly of sterile and non sterile procedure kits previously within the former Medical Products and Services segment. 3 Table of Contents Clinical Technologies and Services. There were no changes to the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. Medical Products Manufacturing. The Medical Products Manufacturing segment encompasses the medical and surgical products manufacturing businesses previously within the former Medical Products and Services segment. The revised segment reporting discussed above is reflected throughout this report for all periods presented. Historical figures are presented in a manner that is consistent with the revised segment reporting. The four segments align within two major sectors: Healthcare Supply Chain Services and Clinical and Medical Products. Healthcare Supply Chain Services includes the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segments, and is focused on the Companys foundational logistics and distribution capabilities. Clinical and Medical Products includes the Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing segments, and is focused on higher margin, faster growing medical products businesses. The following discussion is based on the four reportable segments as they were structured as of and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical General. Through its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, the Company distributes a broad line of branded and generic pharmaceutical products, over the counter healthcare products and consumer products (collectively, pharmaceutical products). The Companys pharmaceutical supply chain business (formerly referred to as the pharmaceutical distribution business) is one of the countrys leading full service wholesale distributors to retail customers (including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers), hospitals and alternate care providers (including mail order pharmacies) located throughout the United States. As a full service wholesale distributor, the pharmaceutical supply chain business complements its distribution activities by offering a broad range of support services to assist its customers in maintaining and helping to improve the efficiency and quality of their services. These support services include, among others: online procurement, fulfillment and information provided through cardinal.com; computerized order entry and order confirmation systems; generic sourcing programs; product movement, inventory and management reports; and consultation on store operations and merchandising. The Companys proprietary software systems feature customized databases specially designed to help its distribution customers order more efficiently, contain costs and monitor their purchases. In addition, this segments pharmaceutical supply chain business provides services to branded pharmaceutical manufacturers through distribution service agreements, including distribution services, inventory management services, data/reporting services, new product launch support and contract and chargeback administration services. This segment also operates a pharmaceutical repackaging and distribution program for chain and independent drug store customers as well as alternate care customers. This segment operates centralized nuclear pharmacies that prepare and deliver radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging and other procedures in hospitals and clinics. This segment also provides third party logistics support services, distributes therapeutic plasma to hospitals, clinics and other providers located in the United States and manufactures and markets generic pharmaceutical products for sale to hospitals, clinics and pharmacies in the United Kingdom. After acquiring SpecialtyScripts, LLC (SpecialtyScripts) during fiscal 2007, this segment operates a specialty pharmacy providing prescription fulfillment and clinical care services directly to individual patients requiring highly intensive therapies. 4 Table of Contents Through this segment, the Company is a franchisor of apothecary style retail pharmacies through its Medicine Shoppe International, Inc. and Medicap Pharmacies Incorporated (Medicap, and together with Medicine Shoppe International, Inc., Medicine Shoppe) franchise systems in the United States and abroad. Medicine Shoppe also owns and operates a limited number of retail pharmacy locations. Pharmaceutical supply chain business model. This segments pharmaceutical supply chain business maintains prime vendor relationships with its customers that streamline the purchasing process by reducing the number of vendors. Using a prime vendor offers customers logistical savings and fosters partnerships between the customers and distributor that result in greater efficiency and lower costs. Five primary factors influence the pharmaceutical supply chain business gross margin for pharmaceutical products: customer discounts, manufacturer cash discounts, distribution service agreement fees, pharmaceutical price appreciation and manufacturer rebates and incentives. In general, the Company sells pharmaceutical products to its customers at a contract price below the manufacturers published price or another designated price at the time of sale (in either case, the manufacturers designated price). The term customer discounts refers to the difference in dollars between the sales price to customers for pharmaceutical products (net of discounts, rebates and incentives given to customers) and the manufacturers designated price for those pharmaceutical products sold in a particular period. The term manufacturer cash discounts refers to the aggregate amount in dollars of cash incentives the Company receives from manufacturers for prompt payment of invoices. Manufacturer cash discounts are typically a fixed percentage of purchases from the manufacturer. The term distribution service agreement fees refers to aggregate fees paid by manufacturers for services provided by the Company related to the distribution of the manufacturers products. The Companys fee for service arrangements are reflected in written distribution service agreements, and may be a fee or a fee plus pharmaceutical price appreciation (as described below). In certain instances, the Company must achieve certain performance criteria to receive the maximum fees under the agreement. The fee is typically a fixed percentage of either the Companys purchases from the manufacturer or the Companys sales of the manufacturers products to its customers. The term pharmaceutical price appreciation refers to the impact on gross margin in dollars of pharmaceutical price appreciation for products sold during a particular period. The impact happens when the Company is able to purchase inventory, hold that inventory when a manufacturer increases the price and sell that product at the higher price. The Company continues to generate gross margin from the sale of some manufacturers products from pharmaceutical price appreciation without receiving distribution service agreement fees. If the frequency or rate of pharmaceutical price appreciation slows, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The term manufacturer rebates and incentives refers to discounts the Company receives from manufacturers as a result of competition among manufacturers, including manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals, in pricing their products. Manufacturer rebates and incentives are based on either the Companys purchases from the manufacturer or the Companys sales of the manufacturers products to its customers. The Company may receive other incentives from manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals for an improved position of the manufacturers products in the Companys various generic formulary programs. (A formulary program is a generic pharmaceutical purchasing program that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of rebate eligible and lower priced generic pharmaceuticals.) The Company generally earns the highest margins on generic pharmaceuticals during the period immediately following the initial launch of a generic product in the marketplace because generic pharmaceutical selling prices are generally deflationary. In sum, the Companys pharmaceutical supply chain business generates gross margin primarily to the extent that the selling price to its customers, net of customer discounts, exceeds in the aggregate cost of products sold, net of manufacturer cash discounts, distribution service agreement fees, pharmaceutical price appreciation and manufacturer rebates and incentives. 5 Table of Contents With respect to its customers, the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment differentiates between bulk and non bulk customers because bulk customers generate significantly lower segment profit as a percentage of revenue than that generated by non bulk customers. Bulk customers consist of customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. All other customers are classified as non bulk customers (for example, retail stores, pharmacies, hospitals and alternate care sites). Bulk customers include the warehouse operations of retail chains whose retail stores are classified as non bulk customers. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information about the pharmaceutical supply chain business model. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical Through its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment, the Company distributes a broad range of branded and private label medical and laboratory products, as well as the Companys own line of surgical and respiratory therapy products manufactured or sold by the Medical Products Manufacturing segment to hospitals, laboratories and ambulatory care customers, such as surgery centers and physician offices. This segment distributes products both in the United States and in Canada. This segment helps assist customers to reduce costs while improving the quality of patient care in a variety of ways, including online procurement, fulfillment and information provided through cardinal.com and supply chain management. This segment also assembles and distributes sterile and non sterile procedure kits under the Presource brand name. Clinical Technologies and Services Through its Clinical Technologies and Services segment, the Company provides products and services to hospitals and other healthcare providers. This segment develops, manufactures, leases and sells medical technology products, including Alaris intravenous medication safety and infusion therapy delivery systems, software applications, needle free disposables and related patient monitoring equipment and Pyxis dispensing systems that automate the distribution and management of medications in hospitals and other healthcare facilities. The segment also develops, manufactures, leases and sells dispensing systems for medical supplies. This segment provides pharmacy services, including full service department outsourcing, transitional and turn key services for acute care hospital pharmacies, as well as remote medication order entry and review and other services. After acquiring MedMined, Inc. (MedMined) and Care Fusion Incorporated (Care Fusion) during fiscal 2007, this segment also provides clinical intelligence solutions, including products and services that identify and prevent hospital acquired infections and provide barcode enabled patient identification systems used in hospitals. This segment primarily distributes its products direct to the customer, although it also distributes some products through medical products distributors, including through the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment. This segment offers products and services principally in the United States and also in Europe, Canada and other regions. Medical Products Manufacturing Through its Medical Products Manufacturing segment, the Company develops and manufactures medical and surgical products for distribution to hospitals, physician offices, surgery centers and other healthcare providers. These products include infection prevention products, such as single use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel, exam and surgical gloves and fluid suction and collection systems, and medical specialties products, such as respiratory therapy products, surgical instruments and special procedure products. After acquiring VIASYS Healthcare Inc. (Viasys) during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, this segment now offers additional products and services directed at the critical care ventilation, respiratory diagnostics and clinical services, neurological, vascular, audio, homecare, orthopedics, sleep diagnostics and other medical and surgical products markets. In connection with the Viasys acquisition, this segment will be referred to as the Medical Products and Technologies segment beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2008. 6 Table of Contents This segment primarily distributes its products through medical products distributors, including through the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment. It also distributes some products direct to the customer. This segment offers products and services principally in the United States and also in Europe, Canada and other regions. For information on comparative segment revenue, profits and related financial information, see Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference. Available Information The Companys Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are made available free of charge on the Companys website (www.cardinalhealth.com, under the Investors SEC filings captions) as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files these materials with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Acquisitions and Divestitures Acquisitions. Since July 1, 2002, the Company has completed the following business combinations: Consideration Paid Stock Options Date(1) Company Location Line of Business Shares Converted(2) Cash (Amounts in millions) January 1, 2003 Syncor International Corporation Woodland Hills, California Provider of nuclear pharmacy services 12.5 (3 ) 3.0 December 16, 2003 The Intercare Group, plc United Kingdom Contract services manufacturer and distributor for pharmaceutical companies $ 570 (4 ) June 28, 2004 ALARIS Medical Systems, Inc. San Diego, California Provider of intravenous medication safety products and services 0.6 $ 2,080 (5 ) June 21, 2007 VIASYS Healthcare Inc. Conshohocken, Pennsylvania Provider of respiratory, neurology, medical disposable and orthopedic products 0.1 $ 1,526 (6 ) (1) Represents the date the Company became the majority shareholder. (2) As a result of the acquisition, the outstanding stock options of the acquired company were converted into options to purchase the Companys Common Shares. This column represents the number of the Companys Common Shares subject to such converted stock options immediately following conversion. (3) Includes the assumption of approximately $120 million in debt. (4) Includes the assumption of approximately $150 million in debt. (5) Includes the assumption of approximately $358 million in debt. (6) Includes the assumption of approximately $54 million in debt; also includes approximately $88 million of shares purchased under equity compensation plans in July 2007. 7 Table of Contents In addition to Viasys, the Company acquired MedMined, Care Fusion and SpecialtyScripts during fiscal 2007. The Company also has completed a number of other smaller acquisitions (asset purchases, stock purchases and mergers) during the last five fiscal years, including acquisitions of Medicap and Snowden Pencer Holdings, Inc. during fiscal 2004, Geodax Technology, Inc (Geodax) during fiscal 2005, and ParMed Pharmaceutical, Inc. (ParMed) and Denver Biomedical, Inc. (Denver Biomedical) during fiscal 2006. The Company also acquired the wholesale pharmaceutical, health and beauty and related drugstore products distribution business of The F. Dohmen Co. and certain of its subsidiaries (Dohmen) and the remaining shares of Source Medical Corporation (Source Medical), its Canadian joint venture, during fiscal 2006. Divestitures. Since July 1, 2002, the Company has completed several divestiture transactions. These transactions include divesting the international and non core domestic businesses of Syncor International Corporation (Syncor) in several transactions since acquiring Syncor in fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2006, the Company also divested a significant portion of its specialty distribution business. In April 2007, the Company completed the sale of the PTS Business to Phoenix Charter LLC (Phoenix), an affiliate of The Blackstone Group, pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement between the Company and Phoenix, dated as of January 25, 2007, as amended (the Purchase Agreement). At the closing of the sale, the Company received approximately $3.2 billion in cash from Phoenix, which was the purchase price of approximately $3.3 billion as adjusted pursuant to certain provisions in the Purchase Agreement for the working capital, cash, indebtedness and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of the PTS Business. Prior to being divested, through the PTS Business, the Company provided products and services to the healthcare industry through pharmaceutical development and manufacturing services in nearly all oral and sterile dose forms, including those incorporating proprietary drug delivery systems, such as softgel capsules, controlled release forms, Zydis fast dissolving wafers and advanced sterile delivery technologies. The PTS Business also provided packaging services, pharmaceutical development, analytical science services and scientific and regulatory consulting. During fiscal 2007, the Company also divested its healthcare marketing services business and its United Kingdom based Intercare pharmaceutical distribution business. Certain businesses that were part of the PTS Business and the Intercare pharmaceutical distribution business were acquired in The Intercare Group, plc (Intercare) transaction described in the table above. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its operations and services across all reportable segments. These acquisitions may involve the use of cash, stock or other securities as well as the assumption of indebtedness and liabilities. In addition, the Company evaluates its portfolio of businesses on an ongoing basis to identify businesses for possible divestiture. For additional information concerning certain of the transactions described above, see Notes 2, 8 and 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Customers The Companys largest customers, CVS Corporation (CVS) and Walgreen Co. (Walgreens), accounted for approximately 21% and 19%, respectively, of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2007. The aggregate of the Companys five largest customers, including CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 50% of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2007. All of the Companys business with its five largest customers is included in its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. The loss of one or more of these five customers could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Businesses in each of the Companys reportable segments have agreements with group purchasing organizations (GPOs) that act as agents that negotiate vendor contracts on behalf of their members. Approximately 10% of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2007 was derived from GPO members through the contractual arrangements established with Novation, LLC (Novation) and Premier Purchasing Partners, L.P. (Premier), the Companys two largest GPO relationships in terms of member revenue. Generally, compliance by GPO members with GPO vendor selections is voluntary. As such, the Company believes the loss of any of the Companys agreements with a 8 Table of Contents GPO would not mean the loss of sales to all members of the GPO, although the loss of such an agreement could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. See Note 1 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Companys concentrations of credit risk and major customers. Suppliers The Company obtains its products from many different suppliers. Products obtained from the Companys five largest suppliers accounted on a combined basis for approximately 20% of the Companys revenue during fiscal 2007. No one suppliers products accounted for more than 5% of the Companys revenue in fiscal 2007. Overall, the Company believes that its relationships with its suppliers are good. The loss of certain suppliers could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition if alternative sources of supply were unavailable at reasonable prices. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical Historically, a significant portion of pharmaceutical supply chains gross margin was derived from the Companys ability to purchase inventory, hold that inventory when a manufacturer increased prices and sell that product at the higher price. Beginning in fiscal 2003, branded pharmaceutical manufacturers began to seek greater control over the amount of product available in the supply chain and, as a result, began to change their sales practices by restricting the volume of product available for purchase by wholesalers. In addition, manufacturers sought additional services from the Company, including providing data concerning product sales and distribution patterns. The Company believes that manufacturers sought these changes to provide them with greater visibility over product demand and movement in the market and to increase product safety and integrity by reducing the risks associated with product being available to, and distributed in, the secondary market. These changes significantly reduced the pharmaceutical price appreciation earned by the Company. In response to these developments, the Company established a compensation system with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers that is significantly less dependent on manufacturers pricing practices, and is based on the services provided by the Company to meet the unique distribution requirements of each manufacturers products. During fiscal 2005, the Company worked with individual branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to define fee for service terms that compensate the Company based on the services being provided to such manufacturers. This transition was completed during fiscal 2006. These new arrangements have moderated the seasonality of earnings which have historically reflected the pattern of manufacturers price increases. The Companys fee for service arrangements are reflected in written distribution service agreements. Distribution service agreements between the Company and certain branded pharmaceutical manufacturers generally range from a one year term with an automatic renewal feature to a five year term. These agreements generally cannot be terminated unless mutually agreed by the parties, a breach of the agreement occurs that is not cured, or a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event occurs. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate the agreement without cause within a defined notice period. See the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Business Model discussion under Reportable Segments Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical above for more information regarding distribution service agreement fees. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical The Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment purchases products from a wide range of medical products suppliers for distribution to its customers. This segment, at times, purchases medical and laboratory products from suppliers other than the original manufacturer of such products. Certain manufacturers have adopted policies limiting the ability of the segments businesses to purchase products from anyone other than the manufacturer. If this practice becomes more widespread, the ability of the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment to purchase products from other distributors, as well as its ability to sell excess inventories to other distributors, may be impaired. This could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing The Clinical Technologies and Services segment uses purchased components in the products it manufactures, including custom designed components and assemblies. The Medical Products Manufacturing segment uses a broad range of raw materials, compounds and purchased components in the products it manufactures, including latex and resins. In certain circumstances, the Companys results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by raw material or component cost increases because the Company may not be able to fully recover the increased costs from the customer or offset the increased cost through productivity improvements. In addition, although most of these raw materials or components are generally available, certain raw materials or components used by the Companys manufacturing businesses may be available only from a limited number of suppliers. Where there are a limited number of suppliers, the Company may experience shortages in supply, and as a result, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. With respect to certain products, the Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing segments contract with third party manufacturers for all or some aspects of their product manufacturing. These segments also source certain finished products from third party suppliers. Competition The Company operates in markets that are highly competitive. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical In the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, the Companys pharmaceutical supply chain business faces competition in the United States from two other national wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) and a number of smaller regional wholesale distributors, self warehousing chains, direct selling manufacturers, specialty distributors and third party logistics companies on the basis of a value proposition that includes pricing, breadth of product lines, service offerings and support services. The pharmaceutical supply chain business has narrow profit margins and, accordingly, the Companys earnings depend significantly on its ability to: compete effectively on the pricing of pharmaceutical products; distribute a large volume and variety of products efficiently; establish and maintain low cost sourcing arrangements with generic pharmaceutical manufacturers; provide quality support services; enter into and maintain satisfactory arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers so it is compensated for the services it provides manufacturers; and effectively manage inventory and other working capital items. This segments nuclear pharmacies compete with nuclear pharmacy companies and distributors engaged in the preparation and delivery of radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging procedures in hospitals and clinics, including numerous national and regional networks of radiopharmacies, numerous independent radiopharmacies and manufacturers and universities that have established their own radiopharmacies. This segments nuclear pharmacies compete based upon a variety of factors, including price, quality, customer service, proprietary technologies or capabilities and responsiveness. With respect to pharmacy franchising operations, a few smaller franchisors compete with Medicine Shoppe in the franchising of pharmacies, with competition being based primarily upon financial assistance offered to qualified franchisees, aggregation of purchase volume, operational support and assistance, benefits offered to both the pharmacist and the customer, access to third party programs, brand awareness and marketing support and pricing. Medicine Shoppe also needs to be competitive with a pharmacists ongoing options to operate an independent pharmacy or work for a chain pharmacy. 10 Table of Contents Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical The Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment faces competition both in the United States and in Canada. Competitive factors within this segment include price, order filling accuracy (both invoicing and product selection), breadth of product offerings, product availability and service offerings. This segment competes across several customer classes with many different distributors, including Owens Minor, Inc., Fisher Scientific International, Inc., Physician Sales Service, Inc., Henry Schein, Inc. and Medline Industries, Inc., among others. This segment also competes with a number of smaller regional medical products distributors and also with third party logistics companies. Clinical Technologies and Services The Companys Clinical Technologies and Services segment faces competition in both its domestic and international markets. Its infusion products compete based upon quality, technological innovation, price, patents and other intellectual property and the value proposition of helping improve patient outcomes while reducing overall costs associated with medication safety. Competitors with respect to infusion products include both domestic and foreign companies, including Hospira, Inc., B. Braun Medical, Inc., Baxter International, Inc. and Fresenius AG. This segments dispensing products (including supply dispensing products) compete based upon quality, relationships with customers, price, customer service and support capabilities, patents and other intellectual property and its ability to interface with customer information systems. Actual and potential competitors with respect to dispensing products include both existing domestic and foreign companies, including McKesson Corporation and Omnicell, Inc., as well as emerging companies that supply products for specialized markets and other outside service providers. This segments pharmacy services compete based on range and quality of services, price, effective use of information systems, development and implementation of clinical programs and the established base of existing operations. Competitors include both national and regional hospital pharmacy management and remote order entry firms, including McKesson Corporation, as well as self managed hospitals and hospital systems. Medical Products Manufacturing The Companys Medical Products Manufacturing segment faces competition in both its domestic and international markets. Competitive factors include product innovation, performance, quality, price and brand recognition. This segment competes against several medical product manufacturers, including Kimberly Clark Corporation, Covidien Ltd. (formerly Tyco Healthcare), Teleflex Incorporated, Medline Industries, Inc., Ansell Limited, 3M Company, Getinge AB, Drger Medical AG Co. KG and Respironics, Inc., among others. Employees As of June 30, 2007, the Company had approximately 28,800 employees in the United States and approximately 14,700 employees outside of the United States. Overall, the Company considers its employee relations to be good. Intellectual Property The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect its products, services and intangible assets. These proprietary rights are important to the Companys ongoing operations. The Company operates under licenses for certain proprietary technology and in certain instances licenses its technology to third parties. The Company has applied in the United States and certain foreign countries for registration of a number of trademarks and service marks, some of which have been registered, and also holds common law rights in various trademarks and service marks. It is possible that in some cases the Company may be unable to obtain the registrations for trademarks and service marks for which it has applied. 11 Table of Contents Through its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, the Company holds patents relating to certain aspects of its nuclear pharmacy products. Through its Clinical Technologies and Services segment, the Company holds patents relating to certain aspects of its automated pharmaceutical dispensing systems, automated medication management systems, medical devices, infusion therapy systems, infusion administration sets, drug delivery systems and infection surveillance and reporting systems. Through its Medical Products Manufacturing segment, the Company holds patents relating to certain aspects of its medical and surgical products and devices, including surgical and exam gloves, drapes, gowns, respiratory therapy devices, patient prep products and surgical instruments. The Company also holds patents relating to certain processes and products across all segments. The Company has a number of pending patent applications in the United States and certain foreign countries, and intends to pursue additional patents as appropriate. The Company has enforced and will continue to enforce its intellectual property rights in the United States and worldwide. The Company does not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to its overall business. Regulatory Matters Certain of the Companys subsidiaries may be required to register for permits and or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (the DEA), the Food and Drug Administration (the FDA), the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the NRC), the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and or comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies, and certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale. These subsidiaries include those that: distribute and or engage in logistics services for prescription pharmaceuticals (including certain controlled substances) and or medical devices; manage or own pharmacy operations; engage in or operate retail, specialty or nuclear pharmacies; purchase pharmaceuticals; develop, manufacture or package pharmaceutical products and medical devices; market pharmaceutical and medical device products; and provide consulting services and solutions that assist healthcare institutions and pharmacies in their operations as well as pharmaceutical manufacturers with regard to regulatory submissions and filings made to healthcare agencies such as the FDA. In addition, certain of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to requirements of the Controlled Substances Act and the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987 and similar state laws, which regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution of prescription drugs and prescription drug samples under prescribed minimum standards. Certain of the Companys subsidiaries that manufacture medical devices are subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended by the Medical Device Amendments of 1976, the Safe Medical Device Act of 1990, as amended in 1992, the FDA Modernization Act of 1997, the Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act of 2002, and comparable foreign regulations. In addition, certain of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act. Laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of products also exist in most other countries where the Companys subsidiaries conduct business. In addition, the international manufacturing operations within the Companys Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing segments are subject to local certification requirements, including compliance with domestic and or foreign good manufacturing practices and quality system regulations established by the FDA and or applicable foreign regulatory authorities. The FDA in the United States, as well as other governmental agencies inside and outside of the United States, administer requirements covering the design, testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and 12 Table of Contents advertising, distribution and post market surveillance of certain of the Companys manufactured products. The Company must obtain specific approval or clearance from the FDA and non U.S. regulatory authorities before it can market and sell many of its products in a particular country. Even after the Company obtains regulatory approval or clearance to market a product, the product and the Companys manufacturing processes are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The Company is subject to possible administrative and legal actions by the FDA and other regulatory agencies for violations of laws and regulations including, without limitation, those laws and regulations described above. Such actions may include product recalls, product seizures, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution, and other civil and criminal sanctions. From time to time, the Company has instituted compliance actions, such as removing products from the market that were found not to meet applicable requirements. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the Alaris SE Pump recall. To assess and facilitate compliance with applicable requirements, the Company regularly reviews its quality systems to determine their effectiveness and identify areas for improvement. The Company also performs assessments of its suppliers of raw materials, components and finished goods. In addition, the Company conducts quality management reviews designed to inform management of key issues that may affect the quality of products and services. From time to time, the Company may determine that products manufactured or marketed by the Company do not meet company specifications, published standards, such as those issued by the International Standards Organization, or regulatory requirements. When a quality issue is identified to the Company, it will investigate and take appropriate corrective action, such as withdrawal of the product from the market, correction of the product at the customer location, notice to the customer of revised labeling, and or other actions. The Companys franchising operations, through Medicine Shoppe, are subject to Federal Trade Commission regulations, and rules and regulations adopted by certain states, which require franchisors to make certain disclosures to prospective franchisees prior to the sale of franchises. In addition, many states have adopted laws which regulate the franchisor franchisee relationship. The most common provisions of such laws establish restrictions on the ability of franchisors to terminate or refuse to renew franchise agreements. From time to time, similar legislation has been proposed or is pending in additional states. The Company operates nuclear pharmacies and related businesses, such as cyclotron facilities used to produce positron emission tomography (PET) products used in medical imaging. This business operates in a regulated industry which requires licenses or permits from the NRC, the radiologic health agency and or department of health of each state in which it operates and the applicable state board of pharmacy. In addition, the FDA is also involved in the regulation of cyclotron facilities where PET products are produced. Services and products provided by certain of the Companys businesses involve access to healthcare information gathered and assessed for the benefit of healthcare clients. Greater scrutiny on a federal and state level is being placed on how patient identifiable healthcare information should be handled and in identifying the appropriate parties and the means to do so. Changes in regulations and or legislation such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and its accompanying federal regulations, such as those pertaining to privacy and security, may affect how some of these information services or products are provided. In addition, certain of the Companys operations, depending upon their location, may be subject to additional state or foreign regulations affecting personal data protection and how information services or products are provided. Failure to comply with HIPAA and other such laws may subject the Company and or its subsidiaries to civil and or criminal penalties, which could be significant. The Company is also subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations, both in the United States and abroad, relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use, transportation and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, U.S. and international import and export laws and regulations require the Company to abide by certain standards relating to the importation and exportation of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. The Company is also subject to certain laws and regulations concerning the conduct of its foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of the Companys internal books and records. Certain of the Companys subsidiaries also maintain contracts with the federal government and are subject to certain regulatory requirements relating to government contractors. 13 Table of Contents The Companys operations are affected by federal, state and or local environmental laws. The Company has compliance programs in place designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements. The Company has made, and intends to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental laws. As a result of acquisitions, the Company is participating in cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. There have been increasing efforts by various levels of government, including state departments of health, state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies, to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. Several states have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations, including pedigree tracking requirements, that are intended to protect the integrity of the pharmaceutical distribution system. Florida has adopted pedigree tracking requirements and California has enacted a law requiring chain of custody technology using electronic pedigrees. Regulations requiring pedigree and chain of custody tracking in certain circumstances adopted under the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act became effective on December 1, 2006. These federal regulations have been challenged in a legal proceeding brought by secondary distributors. A preliminary injunction was issued by the federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York that temporarily enjoined implementation of these federal regulations. These laws and regulations could increase the overall regulatory burden and costs associated with the Companys pharmaceutical supply chain business, and could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company continues to work with its suppliers in an ongoing effort to minimize counterfeit products in the supply chain. On December 26, 2006, the Company entered into a civil settlement to resolve a civil investigation by the New York Attorney Generals Office focusing on trading in the secondary market for pharmaceuticals. The Company has voluntarily undertaken and implemented a number of business reforms regarding certain matters examined as part of the investigation and also has implemented additional business reforms within its pharmaceutical supply chain business as required by the settlement. The Company has substantially enhanced its employee training programs and adopted policies and procedures designed to prevent the improper diversion of pharmaceutical products. It also now requires wholesale customers to certify their compliance with the Companys wholesaler safe product practices. In connection with the settlement, the Company agreed to conduct annual agreed upon procedures testing in 2007, 2008 and 2009 to assess its compliance with the procedures outlined in the settlement. The Company is subject to extensive local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government continues to scrutinize potentially fraudulent practices in the healthcare industry in an attempt to minimize the cost that such practices have on Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. In addition, state attorney general offices have investigated, and may in the future investigate, the Companys operations for compliance with such laws and regulations. For example, certain state attorney general offices are alleging that the Company has caused Medicaid reimbursements to be paid for repackaged pharmaceuticals without paying the required Medicaid rebate and that certain of the Companys repackaging business practices violate the Medicaid rebate statute. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the state attorneys general investigation related to repackaged pharmaceuticals. Many of these laws and regulations are complex and broadly written and could be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require the Company to make changes in its operations. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could suffer civil damages and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or its ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA) includes provisions that change the prescription drug reimbursement formula for generic pharmaceuticals under Medicaid to a reimbursement formula based on the lowest average manufacturers price in an effort to reduce costs for that program. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) released a final rule implementing these provisions on July 6, 2007. Under the final rule, the major changes with respect to generic pharmaceuticals are expected to become effective in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2008. The final rule also requires for the first time public reporting by the manufacturers of the average manufacturers price (as defined by CMS) for branded and generic pharmaceuticals. The Company is continuing to work with its customers and the regulatory agencies in this process. The Company is currently developing plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative changes. If the Company fails to successfully 14 Table of Contents develop and implement such plans, this change in reimbursement formula and related reporting requirements and other provisions of the DRA could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The costs associated with complying with the various applicable federal regulations, as well as state and foreign regulations, could be significant and the failure to comply with all such legal requirements could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Inventories The Companys distribution businesses are generally not required by its customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as may be required to meet service level requirements. Certain supply contracts with U.S. Government entities require the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical and Clinical Technologies and Services segments to maintain sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands. The Company does not believe that the requirements contained in these U.S. Government supply contracts materially impact inventory levels. The Companys customer return policies generally require that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees, and only allow customers to return products that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit. The Companys practice is to offer market payment terms to its customers. Research and Development For information on company sponsored research and development costs in the last three fiscal years, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference. Revenue and Long Lived Assets by Geographic Area For information on revenue and long lived assets by geographic area, see Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference. Item 1A: Risk Factors The risks described below could materially and adversely affect the Companys results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. These risks are not the only risks that the Company faces. The Companys business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to it or that the Company currently considers to be immaterial to its operations. Competitive pressures could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company operates in markets that are highly competitive. For example, the Companys pharmaceutical supply chain business competes with two national wholesale distributors, McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and a number of smaller regional wholesale distributors, self warehousing chains, direct selling manufacturers, specialty distributors and third party logistics companies. In addition, certain of the Companys customers have consolidated and may continue to do so in the future. Competitive pressures could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Substantial defaults or a material reduction in purchases of the Companys products by large customers could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, a significant portion of the Companys revenue growth has been derived from a limited number of large customers. The Companys largest customers, CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 21% and 19%, respectively, of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2007. The aggregate of the Companys five largest customers, including CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 50% of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2007. In addition, CVS and Walgreens accounted for 20% and 27%, respectively, of the Companys gross trade receivable balance at June 30, 2007. As a result, the Companys sales and credit concentration is significant. Any 15 Table of Contents defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases from these or other large customers could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. In addition, certain of the Companys businesses have entered into agreements with GPOs. Approximately 10% of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2007 was derived from GPO members through the contractual arrangements established with Novation and Premier. Generally, compliance by GPO members with GPO vendor selections is voluntary. Still, the loss of an agreement with a GPO could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition because the Company could lose customers or have to reduce prices as a result. Changes in the United States healthcare environment could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The healthcare industry has changed significantly over time and the Company expects the industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these changes, such as adverse changes in government funding of healthcare services, legislation or regulations governing the privacy of patient information, or the delivery or pricing of or reimbursement for pharmaceuticals and healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of the Companys products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for the Companys products and services. The Company expects continued government and private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in the healthcare industrys or any suppliers pricing, reimbursement, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices, or changes in the Companys customer mix, could also significantly reduce the Companys revenue, increase the Companys costs or otherwise significantly impact its results of operations. Healthcare and public policy trends indicate that the number of generic pharmaceuticals will increase over the next few years as a result of the expiration of certain pharmaceutical patents. A decrease in the availability or changes in pricing of or reimbursements for generic pharmaceuticals could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. There have been increasing efforts by various levels of government, including state departments of health, state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies, to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. Several states have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations, including pedigree tracking requirements, that are intended to protect the integrity of the pharmaceutical distribution system. Florida has adopted pedigree tracking requirements and California has enacted a law requiring chain of custody technology using electronic pedigrees. Regulations requiring pedigree and chain of custody tracking in certain circumstances adopted under the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act became effective on December 1, 2006. These federal regulations have been challenged in a case brought by secondary distributors. A preliminary injunction was issued by the federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York that temporarily enjoined implementation of these federal regulations. These laws and regulations could increase the overall regulatory burden and costs associated with the Companys pharmaceutical supply chain business, and could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA) includes provisions that change the prescription drug reimbursement formula for generic pharmaceuticals under Medicaid to a reimbursement formula based on the lowest average manufacturers price in an effort to reduce costs for that program. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) released a final rule implementing these provisions on July 6, 2007. Under the final rule, the major changes with respect to generic pharmaceuticals are expected to become effective in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2008. The final rule also requires for the first time public reporting by the manufacturers of the average manufacturers price (as defined by CMS) for branded and generic pharmaceuticals. The Company is continuing to work with its customers and the regulatory agencies in this process. The Company is currently developing plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative changes. If the Company fails to successfully develop and implement such plans, this change in reimbursement formula and related reporting requirements and other provisions of the DRA could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents The Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment, at times, purchases medical/surgical and laboratory products from vendors other than the original manufacturer of such products. Certain manufacturers have adopted policies limiting the ability of the segments businesses to purchase products from anyone other than the manufacturer. If this practice becomes more widespread, the ability of the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment to purchase products from other distributors, as well as its ability to sell excess inventories to other distributors, may be impaired. This could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Companys pharmaceutical supply chain business is subject to appreciation in branded pharmaceutical prices and deflation in generic pharmaceutical prices, which subjects the Company to risks and uncertainties. Some distribution service agreements entered into by the Company with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers have a price appreciation based component to them in addition to a service fee component. The Company also continues to generate gross margin from the sale of some manufacturers products from pharmaceutical price appreciation without receiving distribution service agreement fees. If the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price appreciation slows, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, the pharmaceutical supply chain business distributes generic pharmaceuticals, which are generally subject to price deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company is subject to legal proceedings that could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company is involved in a number of legal proceedings, which, if decided adversely to the Company or settled by the Company on unfavorable terms, could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company discusses these legal proceedings in greater detail below in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the Companys products or services expose it to product and professional liability risks. The availability of product liability insurance for large companies in the pharmaceutical and medical device industry is generally more limited than insurance available to smaller companies and companies in other industries. Insurance carriers providing product liability insurance to large pharmaceutical and medical device companies generally limit the amount of available policy limits, require larger self insured retentions and include exclusions for certain products. There can be no assurance that a successful product or professional liability claim would be adequately covered by the Companys applicable insurance policies or by any applicable contractual indemnity and, as such, these claims could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The healthcare industry is highly regulated. The Company is subject to various local, state, federal, foreign and transnational laws and regulations, which include the operating and security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, the NRC, DHHS, the European Union member states and other comparable agencies. Certain of the Companys subsidiaries may be required to register for permits and or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of, the DEA, the FDA, the NRC, DHHS and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and or comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies and certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale. Although the Company believes that it is in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion concerning the compliance of the Companys operations with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain or renew existing permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals or obtain without significant delay future permits, licenses or other approvals needed for the operation of the Companys businesses. Any noncompliance by the Company with applicable laws and regulations or the failure to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents The manufacture, distribution and marketing of certain of the Companys products are subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the FDA. Failure to comply with the requirements of the FDA could result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of the government to grant approvals, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the Alaris SE Pump recall. Any of these actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in the Company and its products which could adversely affect the Companys sales. In addition, third parties may file claims against the Company in connection these issues. The Company is also subject to extensive local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government continues to scrutinize potentially fraudulent practices in the healthcare industry in an attempt to minimize the cost that such practices have on Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. In addition, state attorney general offices have investigated, and may in the future investigate, the Companys operations for compliance with such laws and regulations. For example, certain state attorney general offices are alleging that the Company has caused Medicaid reimbursements to be paid for repackaged pharmaceuticals without paying the required Medicaid rebate and that certain of the Companys repackaging business practices violate the Medicaid rebate statute. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the state attorneys general investigation related to repackaged pharmaceuticals. Many of these laws and regulations are complex and broadly written and could be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require the Company to make changes in its operations. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could suffer civil damages and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or its ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Circumstances associated with the Companys acquisition strategy could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. An important element of the Companys growth strategy historically has been the pursuit of acquisitions of other businesses which expand or complement the Companys existing businesses. Acquisitions involve risks, including the risk that the Company overpays for a business or is unable to obtain the synergies and other expected benefits from acquiring a business in a timely manner, or at all. Integrating acquired businesses also involves a number of special risks, including the following: the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations; unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems and realizing potential revenue synergies and cost savings; problems assimilating and retaining the management or employees of the acquired company or the Companys employees following an acquisition; accounting issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company, including issues related to internal control over financial reporting; regulatory or compliance issues that could exist for an acquired company or business; challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses; and potential adverse short term effects on results of operations through increased costs or otherwise. If the Company is unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Consolidating the headquarters of the Healthcare Supply Chain Services sector could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. On April 30, 2007, the Company announced that it was moving the headquarters of its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment and certain corporate functions from Waukegan, Illinois to the Companys corporate headquarters in Dublin, Ohio. This consolidation is expected to take place over the next two years. The consolidation could result in customer service and other business disruptions in the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment and challenges in retaining this segments key employees. If the Company is unable to 18 Table of Contents successfully complete the Healthcare Supply Chain Services headquarters consolidation, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Companys future results of operations are subject to fluctuations in the costs and availability of purchased components, compounds, raw materials and energy. The Company depends on various components, compounds, raw materials, and energy (including oil and natural gas and their derivatives) supplied by others for the manufacturing of its products through its Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing segments. It is possible that any of the Companys supplier relationships could be interrupted due to natural disasters or other events or could be terminated in the future. Any sustained interruption in the Companys receipt of adequate supplies could have an adverse effect on the Company. In addition, while the Company has processes to minimize volatility in component and material pricing, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to successfully manage price fluctuations or that future price fluctuations or shortages will not have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations. Proprietary technology protections may not be adequate. The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect a number of its products, services and intangible assets. These proprietary rights are important to the Companys ongoing operations. There can be no assurance that these protections will provide meaningful protection against competitive products or services or otherwise be commercially valuable or that the Company will be successful in obtaining additional intellectual property or enforcing its intellectual property rights against unauthorized users. There can be no assurance that the Companys competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Companys technology. The products that the Company manufactures or distributes may be found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, third parties have asserted infringement claims against the Company and there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against the Company in the future. While the Company believes that the products that it currently manufactures using its proprietary technology do not infringe upon proprietary rights of other parties or that meritorious defenses would exist with respect to any assertions to the contrary, there can be no assurance that the Company would not be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others. The Company may be subject to litigation over infringement claims regarding the products it manufactures or distributes. This type of litigation can be costly and time consuming and could generate significant expenses, damage payments or restrictions or prohibitions on the Companys use of its technology, which could adversely affect the Companys results of operations. In addition, if the Company is found to be infringing on proprietary rights of others, the Company may be required to develop non infringing technology, obtain a license or cease making, using and or selling the infringing products. Generic drug manufacturers are increasingly challenging the validity or enforceability of patents on branded pharmaceutical products. During the pendency of these legal challenges, a generics manufacturer may begin manufacturing and selling a generic version of the branded product prior to the final resolution to its legal challenge over the branded products patent. The Company may distribute that generic product purchased from the generics manufacturer. As a result, the brand name company may assert infringement claims against the Company. While the Company generally obtains indemnity rights from generic manufacturers as a condition of distributing their products, there can be no assurances that these indemnity rights will be adequate or sufficient to protect the Company. Risks generally associated with the Companys information systems and implementation of a new accounting software system could adversely affect the Companys results of operations or the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. The Company relies on information systems in its business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to: facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; 19 Table of Contents receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; process payments to suppliers; and facilitate the manufacturing and assembly of medical products. The Companys results of operations could be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events or fail for any extended period of time, including due to the actions of third parties. In addition, in July 2007, the Company began implementing a new accounting software system and will transition selected financial processes to the new system throughout fiscal 2008 and 2009. If the Company does not effectively implement this system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting. Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to the Companys tax positions could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company is a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and international jurisdictions. As such, the Company is subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of many international jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect the Companys tax positions. There can be no assurance that the Companys effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as international, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that the Companys tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that the Company would be successful in any such challenge. The Companys global operations are subject to a number of economic, political and regulatory risks. The Company conducts its operations in various regions of the world outside of the United States, including North America, South America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Global economic and regulatory developments affect businesses such as the Companys in many ways. Operations are subject to the effects of global competition. Particular local jurisdiction risks include regulatory risks arising from local laws. The Companys global operations are affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with the Companys supply chain and customers and all of its activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some of these other risks may be insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2: Properties In the United States, the Company has 25 pharmaceutical distribution facilities and three specialty distribution facilities utilized by its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. This segment also has 172 nuclear pharmacy laboratory, manufacturing and distribution facilities. In its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment, the Company has 50 medical surgical distribution and assembly facilities. In its Clinical Technologies and Services segment, the Company has three U.S. assembly operation facilities. In its Medical Products Manufacturing segment, the Company has 28 medical surgical manufacturing facilities. The Companys U.S. operating facilities are located in 45 states and in Puerto Rico. Outside of the United States, the Company owns or leases two operating facilities through its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment in the United Kingdom. The Company owns or leases four operating facilities through its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment in Canada and Mexico. The Company owns or leases four manufacturing and distribution facilities through its Clinical Technologies and Services segment in Australia, Italy, Mexico and the United Kingdom. The Company owns or leases 18 operating facilities through its Medical Products Manufacturing segment in Australia, Canada, Dominican Republic, France, Germany, Ireland, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico and Thailand. 20 Table of Contents The Company owns 80 of its operating facilities, and the remaining 235 operating facilities are leased. The Companys principal executive offices are headquartered in a leased four story building located at 7000 Cardinal Place in Dublin, Ohio. The Company considers its operating properties to be in satisfactory condition and adequate to meet its present needs. However, the Company regularly evaluates its operating properties and may make further additions, improvements and consolidations as it continues to seek opportunities to expand its role as a provider of products and services to the healthcare industry. For certain financial information regarding the Companys facilities, see Notes 12 and 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 3: Legal Proceedings The legal proceedings described in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are incorporated in this Item 3 Legal Proceedings by reference. Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None during the quarter ended June 30, 2007. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following is a list of the executive officers of the Company (information provided as of August 23, 2007): Name Age Position R. Kerry Clark 55 President and Chief Executive Officer Robert D. Walter 62 Executive Chairman of the Board Mark W. Parrish 52 Chief Executive Officer Healthcare Supply Chain Services David L. Schlotterbeck 60 Chief Executive Officer Clinical and Medical Products Jeffrey W. Henderson 42 Chief Financial Officer Ivan K. Fong 46 Chief Legal Officer and Secretary Vivek Jain 35 Executive Vice President Strategy and Corporate Development Daniel J. Walsh 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Carole S. Watkins 47 Chief Human Resources Officer Unless otherwise indicated, the business experience summaries provided below for the Companys executive officers describe positions held by the named individuals during the last five years. Mr. Clark has served as the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer since April 2006. Prior to joining the Company, he was Vice Chairman of the Board PG Family Health of The Procter Gamble Company, a consumer products company, since 2004. Prior to that, he had served in numerous positions with Procter Gamble since joining the company in 1974. He also served as a director of Procter Gamble since 2002. Mr. Clark has served as a director of the Company since April 2006 and also is a director of Textron Inc., an aircraft, automotive and industrial products manufacturer and financial services company. Mr. Walter has served as Executive Chairman of the Board since April 2006. Prior to that, he served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since its formation in 1979, and with the Companys predecessor business since its formation in 1971. He is also a director of the American Express Company, a travel, financial and network services company. He is the father of Matthew D. Walter, a director of the Company. Mr. Parrish has served as Chief Executive Officer Healthcare Supply Chain Services since November 2006. Prior to that, he served as Group President Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Services since August 2006. He was President and Chief Operating Officer Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Services from September 2005 until 21 Table of Contents August 2006, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services from August 2004 until September 2005, Executive Vice President and Group President Pharmaceutical Distribution from January 2003 to August 2004 and President, Medicine Shoppe, a subsidiary of the Company, from July 2001 to January 2003. Mr. Schlotterbeck has served as Chief Executive Officer Clinical and Medical Products since August 2006. Prior to that, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Clinical Technologies and Services since August 2004. He was President of ALARIS Medical Systems, Inc. (Alaris), a subsidiary of the Company, from June 2004 when the Company acquired Alaris until August 2004. He was President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of Alaris from November 1999 to June 2004. Mr. Henderson has served as Chief Financial Officer since May 2005 after joining the Company as an Executive Vice President in April 2005. Prior to joining the Company, he was President and General Manager of Eli Lilly Canada, Inc., a subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company, a pharmaceutical company, from July 2003 to April 2005. He was Vice President and Corporate Controller of Eli Lilly from January 2000 to July 2003. Mr. Fong has served as Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since November 2005. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of GE Vendor Financial Services, a unit of General Electric Company, a diversified technology, media and financial services company, since January 2004. Prior to that, he served as General Electrics Chief Privacy Leader and Senior Counsel, Information Technology from August 2002 to December 2003. Mr. Jain has served as Executive Vice President Strategy and Corporate Development since August 2007. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Senior Vice President/Head of Healthcare Strategy, Business Development and MA for the Philips Medical Systems business of Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V., an electronics company, since May 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Jain was an investment banker at J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. (or its predecessor companies), an investment banking firm, from July 1994 to April 2006. Mr. Jains last position with J.P. Morgan was as Managing Director/Co Head of Global Healthcare Investment Banking from April 2002 to April 2006. Mr. Walsh has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer since May 2005. Prior to joining the Company, he was Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer of Scientific Atlanta Inc., a cable and telecommunications manufacturing company, from May 2003 to May 2005. Prior to that, he held various compliance roles, including Vice President, Audit and Compliance and Corporate Compliance Officer, with TI Group PLC/Smiths Group PLC (TI and Smiths merged January 2001), a medical, industrial and aerospace manufacturing company, from 1993 to May 2003. Ms. Watkins has served as Chief Human Resources Officer and its predecessor position, Executive Vice President Human Resources, since August 2000. 22 Table of Contents PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Common Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CAH. The following table reflects the range of the reported high and low closing prices of the Common Shares as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape and the per share dividends declared for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, and through the period ended on August 23, 2007, the last full trading day prior to the date of the filing of this Form 10 K. High Low Dividends Fiscal 2006 Quarter Ended: September 30, 2005 $ 63.44 $ 57.28 $ 0.06 December 31, 2005 69.24 60.49 0.06 March 31, 2006 75.34 67.91 0.06 June 30, 2006 74.91 62.83 0.09 Fiscal 2007 Quarter Ended: September 30, 2006 $ 70.42 $ 62.80 $ 0.09 December 31, 2006 66.38 61.83 0.09 March 31, 2007 72.95 63.93 0.09 June 30, 2007 75.28 69.07 0.12 Fiscal 2008 Through August 23, 2007 $ 71.28 $ 65.40 $ 0.12 As of August 23, 2007 there were approximately 19,180 shareholders of record of the Common Shares. The Company anticipates that it will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future. However, the payment and amount of future dividends remain within the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors and will depend upon the Companys future earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Total Number of Approximate Dollar Total Average Shares Purchased as Value of Shares Number Price Part of That May Yet be of Shares Paid per Publicly Announced Purchased Under the Period Purchased(1) Share Program(2) Program(2)(3) April 1 30, 2007 4,788,522 $ 73.33 4,758,058 $ 2,036,161,155 May 1 31, 2007 9,271,056 71.09 9,264,843 1,377,486,325 June 1 30, 2007 8,851,813 71.09 8,849,128 748,438,336 Total 22,911,391 $ 71.56 22,872,029 $ 748,438,336 (1) Includes 110, 64, and 63 Common Shares purchased in April, May and June 2007, respectively, through a rabbi trust as investments of participants in the Companys Deferred Compensation Plan. Also includes 30,354; 6,149; and 2,622 restricted shares surrendered in April, May and June 2007, respectively, by employees upon vesting to meet tax withholding. (2) On July 11, 2006, the Company announced a $500 million share repurchase program and on August 3, 2006, the Company announced an additional $1.5 billion share repurchase program. On November 30, 2006, the Company announced an additional $1.0 billion share repurchase program. On January 31, 2007, the Company announced an additional $1.5 billion share repurchase program. After completing the repurchases with the net proceeds of the PTS Business divestiture in July 2007, the Company has approximately $400 million remaining 23 Table of Contents available for repurchases under this $4.5 billion share repurchase program. This program will expire on June 30, 2008. (3) On August 8, 2007, the Company announced a new $2.0 billion share repurchase program which expires on August 31, 2009. The following line graph compares the cumulative total return of the Companys Common Shares with the cumulative total return of the Standard Poors Composite 500 Stock Index and the Value Line Health Care Sector Index, an independently prepared index which includes more than 100 companies in the health care industry (the Value Line Health Care Index or Peer Group). The graph assumes, in each case, an initial investment of $100 on June 30, 2002 based on the market prices at the end of each fiscal year through and including June 30, 2007, with the Value Line Health Care Index investment weighted on the basis of market capitalization at the beginning of each such fiscal year, and assuming reinvestment of dividends (and taking into account all stock splits during such periods). June 30, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Cardinal Health, Inc. $ 100 $ 104.89 $ 114.48 $ 94.36 $ 105.85 $ 116.90 SP 500 100 98.45 115.26 120.36 128.33 151.88 Value Line Health Care Index (Peer Group) 100 106.66 116.12 123.99 126.79 145.10 24 Table of Contents Item 6: Selected Financial Data The consolidated financial data include all business combinations as of the date of acquisition that occurred during these periods. The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and related notes and Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA At or for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30,(1) 2007 2006(2) 2005 2004 2003 (In millions, except per common share amounts) Earnings Data: Revenue $ 86,852.0 $ 79,664.2 $ 72,666.0 $ 63,043.1 $ 55,077.3 Earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting $ 839.7 $ 1,163.3 $ 1,067.1 $ 1,354.8 $ 1,192.5 Earnings/(loss) from discontinued operations(3) 1,091.4 (163.2 ) (16.4 ) 158.2 182.6 Cumulative effect of change in accounting(4) (38.5 ) Net earnings $ 1,931.1 $ 1,000.1 $ 1,050.7 $ 1,474.5 $ 1,375.1 Basic earnings/(loss) per Common Share Continuing operations $ 2.13 $ 2.76 $ 2.48 $ 3.12 $ 2.67 Discontinued operations(3) 2.76 (0.38 ) (0.04 ) 0.36 0.41 Cumulative effect of change in accounting(4) (0.09 ) Net basic earnings per Common Share $ 4.89 $ 2.38 $ 2.44 $ 3.39 $ 3.08 Diluted earnings/(loss) per Common Share Continuing operations $ 2.07 $ 2.71 $ 2.45 $ 3.08 $ 2.63 Discontinued operations(3) 2.70 (0.38 ) (0.04 ) 0.36 0.40 Cumulative effect of change in accounting(4) (0.09 ) Net diluted earnings per Common Share $ 4.77 $ 2.33 $ 2.41 $ 3.35 $ 3.03 Cash dividends declared per Common Share(5) $ 0.390 $ 0.270 $ 0.150 $ 0.120 $ 0.105 Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 23,153.8 $ 23,433.3 $ 21,886.6 $ 21,063.0 $ 18,177.0 Long term obligations, less current portion and other short term borrowings 3,457.3 2,588.6 2,302.1 2,818.7 2,444.3 Shareholders equity 7,376.9 8,490.7 8,593.0 7,976.3 7,674.5 (1) Amounts reflect business combinations and the impact of special items in all periods presented. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of special items affecting fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. Fiscal 2004 amounts reflect the impact of special items of $38.8 million ($23.9 million, net of tax). Fiscal 2003 amounts reflect the impact of special items of $88.5 million ($60.9 million, net of tax). (2) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, applying the modified prospective method. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for equity based awards under the intrinsic value 25 Table of Contents method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations, and equity based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure within the notes to the financial statements. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3) During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company committed to plans to sell the PTS Business thereby meeting the criteria for classification of discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets and Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03 13, Applying the Conditions in Paragraph 42 of FASB Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in Determining Whether to Report Discontinued Operations. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company committed to plans to sell a significant portion of its healthcare marketing services business and its United Kingdom based Intercare pharmaceutical distribution business, thereby meeting the held for sale criteria set forth in SFAS No. 144. During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company decided to discontinue its sterile pharmaceutical manufacturing business in Humacao, Puerto Rico, thereby meeting the criteria for classification of discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144 and EITF Issue No. 03 13. In addition, on January 1, 2003, the Company acquired Syncor. Prior to the acquisition, Syncor had announced the discontinuation of certain operations including the medical imaging business and certain overseas operations. The Company proceeded with the discontinuation of these operations and included additional international and non core domestic businesses in the discontinued operations. The Company sold substantially all of the Syncor related discontinued operations prior to the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2005. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) Effective at the beginning of fiscal 2004, the Company changed its method of recognizing cash discounts from recognizing cash discounts as a reduction of costs of products sold primarily upon payment of vendor invoices to recording cash discounts as a component of inventory cost and recognizing such discounts as a reduction of cost of products sold upon sale of inventory. (5) Cash dividends per Common Share exclude dividends paid by all entities with which subsidiaries of the Company have merged. Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis presented below refers to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10 K. Unless otherwise indicated, throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, discussion of matters in the Companys consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations. The Companys discussion of results of operations is presented in four parts: Company Overview, Consolidated Results of Operations, Segment Results of Operations and Other Matters. Company Overview Strategic Overview Cardinal Health is a leading provider of products and services that improve the safety and productivity of healthcare. The Company is one of the largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies focusing on making supply chains more efficient. The Company distributes approximately one third of all pharmaceuticals prescribed in the United States and also distributes or manufactures products that are used in approximately 50% of all surgeries in the United States. The Company develops market leading technologies, including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing systems, MedMinedtm electronic infection surveillance, Viasys respiratory care products and the Care Fusiontm patient identification system. The Companys Pyxis and Alaris systems distribute approximately 8.5 million doses of medication every day. Customers include hospitals and clinics, some of the largest drug store chains in the United States and many other healthcare providers and retail outlets. The Company believes that its depth and breadth of products is unique in the industry and gives it a competitive advantage. 26 Table of Contents Cardinal Healths mission is to make the practice and delivery of healthcare safer and more productive for healthcare providers. Over the last fiscal year the Company made three major changes to better pursue its mission: the Company reorganized its businesses and reportable segments; the Company divested the PTS Business to focus on the healthcare provider in both the retail and hospital settings; and the Company made strategic acquisitions that broaden and enhance product offerings. First, the Company reorganized its reportable segments effective the first quarter of fiscal 2007 and began reporting its financial information within the following five reportable segments: Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical; Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical; Clinical Technologies and Services; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services; and Medical Products Manufacturing. This change in segment reporting resulted from a realignment of the individual businesses to better correlate the operations of the Company with the needs of its customers. This change had no effect on the Companys reported net earnings or net earnings per Common Share. Second, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company completed the sale of the PTS Business for approximately $3.2 billion in cash. The Company used the after tax net proceeds of approximately $3.1 billion to repurchase its Common Shares. The Company recognized an after tax book gain of approximately $1.1 billion from this transaction. The assets and liabilities of the PTS Business were classified as held for sale in prior periods and its operating results were classified within discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 8 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Companys discontinued operations. The Companys remaining four segments after the sale of the PTS business align within two sectors: the Healthcare Supply Chain Services sector, which includes the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segments, and the Clinical and Medical Products sector, which includes the Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing segments. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services sector focuses on delivering best in class distribution and logistics services to its customers. The sector generates 95% of total segment revenue, approximately three quarters of total segment profit (as defined below in the Segment Results of Operations section) and consistent and reliable cash flow. The Clinical and Medical Products sector focuses largely on developing innovative products for hospitals and other providers of care. The sector, with its higher margin products and services and faster growing segment profit has grown to contribute approximately one fourth of total segment profit. Third, during fiscal 2007, the Company acquired Viasys, MedMined and Care Fusion along with other acquisitions. Viasys is a leader in respiratory care through the development and marketing of systems for critical care and diagnostic use and offers products and services directed at critical care ventilation, respiratory diagnostics and clinical services, neurological, vascular, audio, homecare, orthopedics, sleep diagnostics and other medical and surgical products markets. The value of the transaction, including the assumption of Viasyss debt, totaled approximately $1.5 billion. Viasys is being integrated into the Medical Products Manufacturing segment. The Company also acquired MedMined, a leader in tracking and predicting infection management opportunities within major hospitals and Care Fusion, which focuses on bedside bar code utilization for tracking hospital samples. Both businesses are being integrated into the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. For further information regarding the Companys acquisitions see Item 1 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures, Other Matters Acquisitions below and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For further information regarding the Companys business, see Item 1 Business within this Form 10 K. Financial Overview Continued demand for the Companys products and services in fiscal 2007 led to revenue of $86.9 billion, up 9% from fiscal 2006. Operating earnings, which were negatively impacted by special items ($772 million), decreased 26% to approximately $1.4 billion. The significant increase in special items related to reserves for litigation settlements ($655 million) and in process research and development (IPRD) expenses primarily in connection with the Viasys acquisition ($85 million). The year over year operating earnings comparison was 27 Table of Contents favorably impacted by increased gross margin ($431 million) partially offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses ($200 million). Net earnings, which included the gain from the sale of the PTS Business ($1.1 billion), were $1.9 billion and net diluted earnings per Common Share were $4.77. Fiscal 2007 cash from operating activities decreased $898 million to $1.2 billion primarily due to the payment of litigation settlement reserves and government fines ($690 million) as discussed in the Special Items section below. Cash provided by investing activities was $1.5 billion due primarily to net proceeds from the PTS Business divesture ($3.1 billion) offset by cash paid for acquisitions ($1.6 billion). Cash used in financing activities was $2.6 billion due to the Companys cash payments for treasury shares ($3.7 billion) offset by net proceeds from borrowings ($631 million) and issuance of shares ($553 million). During fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased approximately $3.8 billion of its Common Shares under a $4.5 billion repurchase authorization of which $3.7 billion was settled prior to year end. On August 8, 2007, the Company announced a new $2.0 billion share repurchase program which expires on August 31, 2009. See the table under Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for more information regarding the share repurchases. Also during fiscal 2007, the Company paid $144 million in dividends or $0.36 per share. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Board of Directors raised the quarterly dividend by 33% to $0.12 per share. The share repurchase activity (apart from the use of net proceeds from the PTS Business divestiture) and increased dividend payments support the Companys previously stated long term goal to return 50% of net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations to shareholders and to increase its dividend payout to 20% of earnings per share. Consolidated Results of Operations The following table summarizes the Companys consolidated results of operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions, except per Common Share amounts): Change(1) Consolidated Results of Operations 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 Revenue 9 % 10 % $ 86,852.0 $ 79,664.2 $ 72,666.0 Cost of products sold(2) 9 % 10 % 81,606.7 74,850.2 68,206.3 Gross margin 9 % 8 % $ 5,245.3 $ 4,814.0 $ 4,459.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses(2) (3) 7 % 15 % 3,082.3 2,882.8 2,497.7 Impairment charges and other N.M. N.M. 17.3 5.8 38.3 Special items N.M. N.M. 772.0 80.5 141.5 Operating earnings (26 )% 4 % $ 1,373.7 $ 1,844.9 $ 1,782.2 Interest expense and other 16 % (11 )% 121.4 104.5 117.8 Earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations (28 )% 5 % $ 1,252.3 $ 1,740.4 $ 1,664.4 Provision for income taxes (29 )% (3 )% 412.6 577.1 597.3 Earnings from continuing operations (28 )% 9 % $ 839.7 $ 1,163.3 $ 1,067.1 Earnings / (loss) from discontinued operations N.M. N.M. 1,091.4 (163.2 ) (16.4 ) Net earnings 93 % (5 )% $ 1,931.1 $ 1,000.1 $ 1,050.7 Net diluted earnings per Common Share 105 % (3 )% $ 4.77 $ 2.33 $ 2.41 (1) Change is calculated as the percentage increase or (decrease) for a given year as compared to the immediately preceding year. (2) During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company changed the classification of certain immaterial implementation costs associated with the sale of medication and supply storage devices in the Clinical Technologies and Services segment from selling, general and administrative expenses to cost of products sold. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the new presentation. 28 Table of Contents (3) Equity based compensation expense was $138 million, $208 million and $9 million, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Revenue Revenue increased $7.2 billion or 9% during fiscal 2007 due to growth in each of the Companys four reportable segments, including revenue growth of $6.5 billion within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, due primarily to growth in revenue from bulk customers ($4.0 billion). The increase in revenue from bulk customers was due to certain existing customers deciding to purchase a greater volume of product from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer and to pharmaceutical price appreciation. The Company uses the internal metric pharmaceutical price appreciation index to evaluate the impact of pharmaceutical and consumer product price appreciation on revenue from the pharmaceutical supply chain business. This metric is calculated using the change in the manufacturers published price at the beginning of the period as compared to the end of the period weighted by the units sold by the pharmaceutical supply chain business during the period. The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 6.3% during fiscal 2007. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment represents approximately 86% of total segment revenue. Refer to Segment Results of Operations below for further discussion of the specific factors affecting revenue in each of the Companys reportable segments. Revenue increased $7.0 billion or 10% during fiscal 2006 due to increased revenue within each of the Companys four reportable segments, including revenue growth of $6.4 billion within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, due primarily to growth in revenue from bulk customers ($5.8 billion). The increase in revenue from bulk customers was due to overall market growth and certain existing customers deciding to purchase a greater volume of product from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer. The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 5.6% during fiscal 2006. Cost of Products Sold Cost of products sold increased $6.8 billion or 9% and $6.6 billion or 10%, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006. The increases in cost of products sold were mainly due to the respective 9% and 10% growth in revenue for fiscal 2007 and 2006. See the Gross Margin discussion below for further discussion of additional factors impacting cost of products sold. Gross Margin Gross margin increased $431 million or 9% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 over the prior fiscal year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to revenue growth of $7.2 billion. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included increased sales of clinical and medical products and related services ($204 million), increased manufacturer cash discounts ($193 million), generic pharmaceutical margin ($192 million) and distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $171 million). Gross margin was negatively impacted by the increase in customer discounts within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segments ($324 million) due to increased sales and competitive pricing pressures. Refer to the Segment Results of Operations below for further discussion of the specific factors affecting gross margin in each of the Companys reportable segments. Due to the competitive markets in which the Companys businesses operate, the Company expects competitive pricing pressures to continue; however, the Company expects the margin impact of these pricing pressures will be mitigated through sales growth of higher margin manufactured products, effective product sourcing, realization of synergies through integration of acquired businesses and continued focus on cost controls. Gross margin increased $354 million or 8% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to revenue growth of $7.0 billion. Gross margin was favorably impacted by increased gross margin in clinical and manufactured products and related services ($211 million) and manufacturer cash discounts ($139 million) and distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $134 million) from the pharmaceutical supply chain business within the Healthcare Supply Chain 29 Table of Contents Services Pharmaceutical segment. Gross margin was negatively impacted by increased customer discounts ($232 million) in the pharmaceutical supply chain business. Selling, General and Administrative (SGA) Expenses SGA expenses increased $200 million or 7% during fiscal 2007 primarily in support of revenue growth. Additional items impacting SGA expenses included increases due to acquisitions ($72 million) and the Companys charitable contribution to the Cardinal Health Foundation ($30 million). SGA expenses were favorably impacted by the year over year reduction in equity based compensation expense ($70 million). The reduction in equity based compensation expense was due in part to changes made to the Companys equity compensation program and the grant of stock appreciation rights in the prior year. Refer to Segment Results of Operations below for further discussion of the specific factors affecting SGA expenses in each of the Companys reportable segments. The Company expects SGA expenses to grow in fiscal 2008 in support of sales growth and new product and service offerings and as a result of the impact of acquisitions and continued investment in research and development projects and international expansion; however, the Company does expect to generate expense efficiencies through the integration of acquired companies and other cost controls. SGA expenses increased $385 million or 15% during fiscal 2006 primarily in support of the $7.0 billion revenue growth and as a result of increased equity based compensation expense ($199 million), primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). See Other Matters Adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) below and Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. Additional items impacting SGA expenses included increased incentive compensation expense ($36 million) due to improved operating performance, incremental expenses associated with the Companys global restructuring program ($38 million) and increased legal expenses ($15 million) due to then outstanding litigation. Impairment Charges and Other The Company recognized impairment charges and other of $17 million, $6 million and $38 million, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding impairment charges and other. Special Items The following is a summary of the Companys special items for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Restructuring charges $ 40.1 $ 47.6 $ 80.3 Acquisition integration charges 101.5 25.4 48.3 Litigation and other 630.4 7.5 12.9 Total special items $ 772.0 $ 80.5 $ 141.5 Fiscal 2007 special items charges primarily related to reserves for litigation settlements ($655 million) and IPRD expenses ($85 million) primarily in connection with the Viasys acquisition. The Company recorded litigation charges and made payment of $655 million during fiscal 2007 related to the settlement of the Cardinal Health federal securities litigation ($600 million), Cardinal Health ERISA litigation ($40 million) and other matters. These charges were offset by $29 million of income related to pharmaceutical manufacturer antitrust litigation. In addition, the Company settled and made payment for the penalty associated with the SEC investigation ($35 million), which was reserved in fiscal 2006 and 2005. These settlements resolve some of the Companys most significant outstanding litigation as well as the SEC investigation. In fiscal 2008, the Company expects to recognize approximately $58 million in proceeds as income from insurance policies upon final settlement of all claims in shareholder derivative actions. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these matters and other outstanding legal proceedings and regulatory matters. 30 Table of Contents During fiscal 2007, the Company recorded $85 million of IPRD charges primarily associated with the Viasys acquisition. The IPRD charges were determined by an independent third party appraisal and represent the estimated fair value of the research and development projects in process at the time of the acquisition. These projects had not yet reached technological feasibility, were deemed to have no alternative use and, accordingly, were immediately charged to operating expense at the acquisition date. Fiscal 2006 and 2005 special items charges primarily related to the Companys restructuring programs, the SEC investigation and Audit Committee internal review, the integration costs of certain acquisitions and settlements received from vitamin antitrust litigation. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details of the Companys special items. Operating Earnings Operating earnings decreased $471 million or 26% during fiscal 2007, which includes increased special items charges ($692 million) and impairment and other charges ($12 million). Operating earnings were favorably impacted by gross margin growth ($431 million) and negatively impacted by increased SGA expenses ($200 million). Operating earnings increased $63 million or 4% during fiscal 2006. Operating earnings were favorably impacted by gross margin growth ($354 million) and the year over year decrease in special items charges ($61 million) and impairment charges and other ($33 million). Fiscal 2006 operating earnings were negatively impacted by increased SGA expenses ($385 million). Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other increased $17 million or 16% during fiscal 2007 primarily due to increased borrowing levels and interest rates. Interest expense and other decreased $13 million during fiscal 2006 primarily due to an increase in investment income ($7 million) and foreign exchange gains ($4 million). Provision for Income Taxes The provisions for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations were 32.9%, 33.2% and 35.9% of pretax earnings in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Generally, fluctuations in the effective tax rate are due to changes within international and U.S. state effective tax rates resulting from the Companys business mix and changes in the tax impact of special items, which may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item and the taxing jurisdiction. The Companys effective tax rate reflects tax benefits derived from increasing operations outside the United States, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. The Company has tax incentive agreements in several non U.S. tax jurisdictions which will expire in fiscal years 2009 through 2024 if not renewed. The Company does not believe that potential changes from existing tax incentive agreements will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. The Companys fiscal 2007 provision for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations was $412.6 million and the effective tax rate was 32.9%. The fiscal 2007 effective tax rate benefited by 0.2 percentage points from equity based compensation expense, which is deductible at a tax rate higher than the average tax rate. The fiscal 2007 effective tax rate was adversely impacted by 0.75 percentage points due to the non deductibility of certain special items and impairments, principally the IPRD charge related to the Viasys acquisition. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal or non U.S. income tax audits by tax authorities for fiscal years ending before June 30, 2001. The years subsequent to fiscal 2000 contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations as it relates to the amount and or timing of income, deductions and tax credits. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) currently has ongoing examinations of open years from 2001 through 2005. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the Company believes that adequate amounts of tax and interest have been provided for any adjustments that are expected to result for these years. While it is not currently possible to predict the impact of settlements or other IRS 31 Table of Contents audit activity on income tax expense or cash flows during the next 12 months, the Company does not expect any significant impact on financial position. During the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the effective tax rate from continuing operations was favorably impacted by a $9.9 million adjustment to the tax reserves primarily due to the issuance of a final IRS Revenue Agent Report that related to fiscal years 2001 and 2002. During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the effective tax rate from continuing operations was negatively impacted by a $7.3 million adjustment to the tax reserves related to an ongoing international tax audit. During the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company entered into an agreement with the IRS to close the fiscal years 1996 through 2000 federal audits. As a result, the Company reversed tax reserves of approximately $8.9 million. The Companys fiscal 2006 provision for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations was $577.1 million and the effective tax rate was 33.2%. The fiscal 2006 effective tax rate was adversely impacted by 0.2 percentage points due to the non deductibility of certain special items. A provision of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA) created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed income earned abroad by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from non U.S. subsidiaries. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company determined that it would repatriate $500 million of accumulated non U.S. earnings in fiscal 2006 pursuant to the repatriation provisions of the AJCA, and accordingly, the Company recorded a related tax liability of $26.3 million as of June 30, 2005. The $500 million is the maximum repatriation available to the Company under the repatriation provisions of the AJCA. During fiscal 2006, the Company repatriated $494 million of qualifying accumulated foreign earnings in accordance with its plan adopted during fiscal 2005. An additional tax liability of $0.4 million was recorded during fiscal 2006 due to new state legislation with respect to the AJCA, bringing the Companys total tax liability related to the repatriation recorded through June 30, 2006 to $26.7 million. Uses of repatriated funds included domestic expenditures related to non executive salaries, capital asset investments and other permitted activities. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Discontinued Operations Earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax increased by $1.3 billion during fiscal 2007 primarily due to the after tax gain on the sale of the PTS Business ($1.1 billion) and impairment charges from prior year ($185 million). See Note 8 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Companys discontinued operations. Segment Results of Operations Reportable Segments The Companys operations are organized into four reportable segments: Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical; Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical; Clinical Technologies and Services; and Medical Products Manufacturing. The Company evaluates the performance of the individual segments based upon, among other things, segment profit. Segment profit is segment revenue less segment cost of products sold, less segment SGA expenses. Segment SGA expense includes equity compensation expense as well as allocated corporate expenses for shared functions, including corporate management, corporate finance, financial shared services, human resources, information technology, legal and legislative affairs and the integrated sales organization. Corporate expenses are allocated to the segments based upon headcount, level of benefit provided and ratable allocation. Information about interest income and expense and income taxes is not provided at the segment level. In addition, special items, impairment charges and other and investment spending are not allocated to the segments. See Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Companys reportable segments. Revenue increased in each of the Companys four reportable segments during fiscal 2007, including double digit growth in the Medical Products Manufacturing (12%) and Clinical Technologies and Services (11%) segments. Segment profit increased in each of the Companys four reportable segments, including double digit 32 Table of Contents growth in the Medical Products Manufacturing (20%), Clinical Technologies and Services (20%) and Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical (14%) segments. The following table summarizes segment revenue for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): Growth(1) Segment Revenue 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical: Revenue from non bulk customers(2) 6 % 2 % $ 42,672.8 $ 40,174.9 $ 39,570.5 Revenue from bulk customers(2) 13 % 24 % 33,900.0 29,872.0 24,084.4 Total Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical 9 % 10 % $ 76,572.8 $ 70,046.9 $ 63,654.9 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical 4 % 6 % 7,513.9 7,198.6 6,823.0 Clinical Technologies and Services 11 % 11 % 2,687.0 2,430.3 2,189.3 Medical Products Manufacturing 12 % 6 % 1,835.9 1,632.9 1,537.0 Total segment revenue 9 % 10 % $ 88,609.6 $ 81,308.7 $ 74,204.2 Corporate(3) N.M. N.M. (1,757.6 ) (1,644.5 ) (1,538.2 ) Consolidated revenue 9 % 10 % $ 86,852.0 $ 79,664.2 $ 72,666.0 (1) Growth is calculated as the percentage change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to the immediately preceding year. (2) Bulk customers consist of customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. Non bulk customers include retail stores, hospitals, alternate care sites and other customers not specifically classified as bulk customers. Most deliveries to bulk customers consist of product shipped in the same form as received from the manufacturer. See discussion below within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical section for the Companys description of revenue from bulk customers. (3) Corporate revenue consists of the elimination of inter segment revenue for all periods presented. The following table summarizes segment profit for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): Growth(1) Segment Profit(2)(3) 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical(4) 14 % (7 )% $ 1,299.8 $ 1,142.6 $ 1,223.6 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical(5) 1 % (14 )% 318.1 314.5 367.5 Clinical Technologies and Services 20 % 35 % 385.7 320.3 238.1 Medical Products Manufacturing(4) 20 % (6 )% 197.6 164.5 175.7 Total segment profit 13 % (3 )% $ 2,201.2 $ 1,941.9 $ 2,004.9 Corporate(6) N.M. N.M. (827.5 ) (97.0 ) (222.7 ) Consolidated operating earnings (26 )% 4 % $ 1,373.7 $ 1,844.9 $ 1,782.2 (1) Growth is calculated as the percentage change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to the immediately preceding year. (2) A portion of the corporate costs previously allocated to the former Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment have been reclassified to the remaining four segments based upon each segments respective 33 Table of Contents proportion of allocated corporate expenses. In addition, equity based compensation has been allocated to the segments based upon the forecasted equity based compensation expense for the respective segment plus one fourth of the forecasted corporate equity based compensation expense. Prior period information has been adjusted to reflect these changes in methodology. (3) Equity based compensation expense was $138 million, $208 million and $9 million, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. (4) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment recorded a charge reflecting credits owed to certain vendors ($32 million) for prior periods. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, an adjustment ($4 million) was recorded to reduce a portion of the reserve based upon a revised estimate. (5) During the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company revised the method used to allocate certain shared costs between the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment and the Medical Products Manufacturing segment to better align costs with the segment that receives the related benefits. Prior period information has been adjusted to reflect this change in methodology. (6) For fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, corporate operating earnings include special items, impairment charges and other and certain other Corporate investment spending described below: Special items Corporate operating earnings include special items of $772 million, $81 million and $142 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively (see Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of special items). Impairment charges and other See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of impairment charges and other. Investment spending The Company has encouraged its business units to identify investment projects which will provide future returns. These projects typically require incremental strategic investments in the form of additional capital or operating expenses. As approval decisions for such projects are dependent upon Corporate management, the expenses for such projects are retained at the Corporate segment. Investment spending for fiscal years, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $22 million, $19 million and $18 million, respectively. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical Performance During fiscal 2007, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment revenue increased $6.5 billion or 9% primarily from revenue from bulk customers. Segment profit increased $157 million due to revenue growth, increased generic pharmaceutical margin and increased distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation, offset by increased customer discounts and increased SGA expenses. The pharmaceutical distribution market remains highly competitive and the Company expects that customer discounts will continue to increase. However, the Company expects that increased manufacturer cash discounts and distribution service agreement fees, both of which increase with revenue growth, combined with increased generic margin and continued pharmaceutical price appreciation will enable the Company to offset increased customer discounts. The Companys results could be adversely affected if sales of pharmaceutical products decline, the frequency of new generic pharmaceutical launches decreases or pharmaceutical price appreciation decreases from its historical rate. Alternatively, the Companys results could benefit if sales of pharmaceutical products increase, the frequency of new generic pharmaceutical launches increases or pharmaceutical price appreciation exceeds its historical rate. Revenue from bulk customers, described below, increased $4.0 billion during fiscal 2007 with additional volume from existing customers ($2.7 billion) and new customers ($1.3 billion). Revenue from non bulk customers increased $2.5 billion. Growth in revenue from non bulk customers was driven by additional sales volume from existing customers and pharmaceutical price appreciation ($4.0 billion). The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 6.3% for fiscal 2007. Acquisitions ($1.2 billion), mainly Dohmen and ParMed, also had a favorable impact on the year over year revenue comparison. Negatively impacting growth in revenue from non bulk customers was the loss of existing customers due to competition ($1.0 billion) and the sale of a significant part of the specialty distribution business ($1.7 billion) in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. 34 Table of Contents Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment profit increased $157 million or 14% in fiscal 2007. Gross margin increased segment profit by $202 million primarily due to the segments revenue growth and increased generic pharmaceutical margin ($192 million) due to new product launches and competitive vendor pricing. Gross margin also was favorably impacted by increased manufacturer cash discounts due to sales volume growth ($187 million) and distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $171 million). Gross margin was negatively impacted by increased customer discounts ($319 million) due to increased sales volume and competitive pressures. The Company expects continued customer discounting due to the competitive market in which it operates. Increases in segment SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by approximately $45 million for fiscal 2007. Increases in SGA expenses were in support of the increased sales volume and due to the impact of acquisitions ($37 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($14 million). Segment profit was negatively impacted by the prior year sale of a significant portion of the specialty distribution business ($43 million). The Company estimates that branded pharmaceuticals with industry wide sales volume domestically of $21.8 billion and $4.4 billion came off of patent protection during fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively, which allowed for generic pharmaceutical competition. The Companys estimate of industry wide branded pharmaceutical sales volume is internally developed using industry sales data for significant branded pharmaceuticals adapted for the Companys fiscal period. Generic pharmaceuticals negatively impact revenue because they are offered at lower prices than branded pharmaceuticals; however, generic pharmaceuticals positively impact gross margin and operating earnings due to competitive vendor pricing. The Company generally earns the highest margins on generic pharmaceuticals during the period immediately following the initial launch of a generic product to the marketplace because generic pharmaceutical selling prices are generally deflationary. The Company expects a similar level of branded pharmaceuticals will come off of patent protection during fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007. During fiscal 2006, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment revenue increased $6.4 billion or 10%. Revenue from bulk customers increased $5.8 billion. Centralized warehouse and mail order customers contributed $5.0 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, of the bulk customer revenue growth. The additional sales volume was due in significant part to certain existing warehouse customers deciding to purchase from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer. Revenue from non bulk customers increased $604 million based upon pharmaceutical price appreciation and additional sales volume from new and existing customers. Revenue growth was negatively impacted as a result of the decision of the specialty distribution businesss largest customer to begin self distribution on January 1, 2006 and the sale of a significant portion of the specialty distribution business in the fourth quarter ($190 million). The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 5.6% for fiscal 2006. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment profit decreased $81 million or 7% in fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $70 million due primarily to the segments revenue growth and increased manufacturer cash discounts ($139 million) due to increased sales within the pharmaceutical supply chain business. In addition, gross margin was favorably impacted by distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $134 million). Other factors favorably impacting gross margin included generic pharmaceuticals ($32 million) due to sales growth, competitive vendor pricing, the introduction of new generic pharmaceuticals within the pharmaceutical supply chain business, the addition of new vendors to the segments National Logistics Center ($27 million) and a last in, first out (LIFO) reserve reduction ($26 million) primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories. Increased customer discounts within the pharmaceutical supply chain business negatively impacted segment profit by $232 million due to increased sales volume and competitive pressures. Segment profit was also negatively impacted by an adjustment ($32 million), as described in detail below. Increases in segment SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by approximately $151 million for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005. Increases in these expenses were in support of the increased sales volume and increased equity based compensation expense ($67 million) due primarily to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). As noted above, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment profit was negatively impacted by an adjustment recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The Company discovered it had inadvertently and 35 Table of Contents erroneously failed to process credits owed to a vendor in prior years. After a thorough review, the Company determined it had failed to process similar credits for a limited number of additional vendors. These processing failures, specific to a limited area of vendor credits, resulted from system programming, interface and data entry errors relating to these vendor credits which occurred over a period of years. As a result, the Company recorded a charge ($32 million) in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting its estimate of the credits owed to these vendors. Bulk and Non Bulk Customers. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment differentiates between bulk and non bulk customers because bulk customers generate significantly lower segment profit as a percentage of revenue than non bulk customers. Bulk customers consist of customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. All other customers are classified as non bulk customers (for example, retail stores, pharmacies, hospitals and alternate care sites). Bulk customers include the warehouse operations of retail chains whose retail stores are classified as non bulk customers. For example, a single retail chain pharmacy customer may be both a bulk customer with respect to its warehouse operations and a non bulk customer with respect to its retail stores. Bulk customers have the ability to process large quantities of products in central locations and self distribute these products to their individual retail stores or customers. Substantially all deliveries to bulk customers consist of product shipped in the same form as the product is received from the manufacturer, but a small portion of deliveries to bulk customers are broken down into smaller units prior to shipping. Non bulk customers, on the other hand, require more complex servicing by the Company. These services, all of which are performed by the Company, include receiving inventory in large or full case quantities and breaking it down into smaller quantities, warehousing the product for a longer period of time, picking individual products specific to a customers order and delivering that smaller order to a customer location. The Company tracks revenue by bulk and non bulk customers in its financial systems. To assist the Company in managing its business, an internal analysis has been prepared to allocate segment expenses (total of segment cost of products sold and segment selling, general and administrative expenses) separately for bulk and non bulk customers. The following table shows the allocation of segment expenses, segment profit and segment profit as a percentage of revenue for bulk and non bulk customers for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Non bulk customers: Revenue from non bulk customers $ 42,673 $ 40,175 $ 39,571 Segment expenses allocated to non bulk customers(1)(2) 41,565 39,215 38,475 Segment profit from non bulk customers(1)(2) 1,108 960 1,096 Segment profit from non bulk customers as a percentage of revenue from non bulk customers(1)(2) 2.6 % 2.4 % 2.8 % Bulk customers: Revenue from bulk customers $ 33,900 $ 29,872 $ 24,084 Segment expenses allocated to bulk customers(1)(2) 33,709 29,716 23,988 Segment profit from bulk customers(1)(2) 191 156 96 Segment profit from bulk customers as a percentage of revenue from bulk customers(1)(2) 0.6 % 0.5 % 0.4 % (1) Amounts shown are estimates based upon the internal analysis described above. The preparation of this internal analysis required the use of complex and subjective estimates and allocations based upon assumptions, past experience and judgment that the Company believes are reasonable. The core pharmaceutical distribution operation (Distribution) within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment services both bulk and non bulk customers. Therefore, expenses associated with this operation were allocated between bulk and non bulk customers as described below. The brokerage operation (Brokerage) within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment only services bulk customers, therefore, expenses associated with Brokerage are allocated to bulk customers. The remaining operations (i.e. excluding Distribution and Brokerage) within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment service non bulk customers, therefore, expenses associated with these operations were allocated to non bulk customers. 36 Table of Contents The following describes the allocation of the major components of cost of products sold for Distribution between bulk and non bulk customers: Cost of products sold for pharmaceutical products is determined by specifically tracking the manufacturers designated price of products, at the time the products are sold, by bulk and non bulk customers. The manufacturers designated price is then reduced by other components impacting cost of products sold, including distribution service agreement fees, pharmaceutical price appreciation, manufacturer cash discounts and manufacturer rebates and incentives. In addition, other inventory charges and credits are added or subtracted, as appropriate, to arrive at cost of products sold. The Company used the following methods that it believes provide a reasonable correlation to allocate the remaining components of cost of products sold between bulk and non bulk customers. Distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation are tracked by manufacturer. Therefore, the Company allocated the distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation associated with each manufacturer among their products in proportion to sales of each product between bulk and non bulk customers. Manufacturer cash discounts are recognized as a reduction to cost of products sold when the related inventory is sold and were allocated in proportion to the manufacturers published price of the product sold to bulk and non bulk customers. Manufacturers rebates and incentives are based on the individual agreements entered into with manufacturers related to specific products. Rebates and incentives were grouped by contract terms and then allocated in proportion to sales to bulk and non bulk customers. Other inventory charges and credits include charges for outdated and returned inventory items and fluctuation in inventory reserves. The Company estimated the portion of these inventory charges and credits attributable to each product and then allocated them to bulk and non bulk customers in proportion to the sales of these products. The Company used methods that it believes provide a reasonable correlation to allocate the selling, general and administrative expenses for Distribution between bulk and non bulk customers as follows: Warehouse expense includes labor related expenses associated with receiving, shipping and handling the inventory as well as warehouse storage costs including insurance, taxes, supplies and other facility costs. Warehouse expense was allocated in proportion to the number of invoice line items filled for each bulk or non bulk customer because the Company believes that there is a correlation between the number of different products ordered as reflected in invoice lines and the level of effort associated with receiving, shipping and handling that order (bulk customers typically order larger quantities of products for each invoice line); Delivery expense includes transportation costs associated with physically moving the product from the warehouse to the customers designated location. Delivery expense was allocated in proportion to the number of invoices generated for each bulk or non bulk customer on the assumption that each invoice generates a delivery; Sales expense includes personnel related costs associated with sales and customer service activities (such activities are the same for both bulk and non bulk customers). Sales expense was allocated in proportion to the number of invoices generated for each bulk or non bulk customer because customer invoices are a reasonable estimate of the amount of customer service calls and sales effort; and General and administrative expenses were allocated in proportion to the units of products sold to bulk or non bulk customers. These expenses were allocated on the assumption that general and administrative expenses increase or decrease in direct relation to the volume of sales. (2) Amounts exclude LIFO credit provisions of $0, $26 million and $32 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The internal analysis indicated segment expenses as a percentage of revenue were higher for bulk customers than for non bulk customers because of higher segment cost of products sold partially offset by lower segment SGA expenses. Bulk customers receive lower pricing on sales of the same products than non bulk customers due to volume pricing in a competitive market and the lower costs related to the services provided by the Company. In 37 Table of Contents addition, sales to bulk customers in aggregate generate higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue than sales to non bulk customers because bulk customers orders consist almost entirely of higher cost branded products. The higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue for bulk customers is also driven by lower manufacturer distribution service agreement fees and branded pharmaceutical price appreciation and lower manufacturer cash discounts. Manufacturer distribution service agreement fees and manufacturer cash discounts are recognized as a reduction to segment cost of products sold and are lower as a percentage of revenue due to the mix of products sold. Pharmaceutical price appreciation increases customer pricing which, in turn, results in higher segment gross margin for sales of inventory that was on hand at the time of the manufacturers price increase. Since products sold to bulk customers are generally held in inventory for a shorter time than products sold to non bulk customers, there is less opportunity to realize the benefit of pharmaceutical price appreciation. Consequently, segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue for bulk customers is higher than for non bulk customers and segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue is substantially lower for bulk customers than for non bulk customers. Deliveries to bulk customers require substantially less services by the Company than deliveries to non bulk customers. As such, the segment SGA expenses as a percentage of revenue from bulk customers are substantially lower than from non bulk customers. These factors result in segment profit as a percentage of revenue being significantly lower for bulk customers than for non bulk customers. The Company defines bulk customers based on the way in which the Company operates its business and the services it performs for its customers. The Company is not aware of an industry standard regarding the definition of bulk customers and based solely on a review of the Annual Reports on Form 10 K of other national pharmaceutical wholesalers, the Company notes that other companies in comparable businesses may, or may not, use a different definition of bulk customers. During fiscal 2007, segment profit from bulk customers increased $35 million, or 0.1% of revenue from bulk customers, due to increased sales volume described above and the year over year increase in distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation. Segment profit for non bulk customers increased $148 million, or 0.2% of revenue from non bulk customers, compared to fiscal 2006. This increase in segment profit from non bulk customers was due primarily to the increase in sales volume described above and the impact of generic products which had a greater impact on the profitability of non bulk customers due to the mix of pharmaceuticals distributed to non bulk customers. Fiscal 2006 segment profit from bulk customers increased $60 million, or 0.1% of revenue from bulk customers, due to increased sales volume described above and the year over year impact of new distribution service agreements and pharmaceutical price appreciation. The favorable impact of distribution service agreements and of pharmaceutical price appreciation had a greater impact on the profitability of bulk customers than on non bulk customers in fiscal 2006 due to the mix of branded pharmaceuticals distributed to bulk customers. These positive factors were partially offset by an increase in allocated equity based compensation expense of $10 million due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The fiscal 2006 segment profit for non bulk customers declined $136 million, or 0.4% of revenue from non bulk customers, compared to fiscal 2005. An increase in segment profit from non bulk customers due to increased sales and new distribution service agreements was offset by increased customer discounts, an increase in segment SGA expenses (which was largely due to sales growth and an increase in allocated equity based compensation expense of $57 million due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)), and a $32 million charge during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting credits owed to vendors. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical Performance During fiscal 2007, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment revenue increased $315 million while segment profit remained relatively flat. The Company remains focused on improving operating performance within this segment through continued investment in customer service and restructuring the business. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company announced its plan to combine the headquarters of the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical and Medical segments in order to promote sharing best practices and support functions to provide better service for its customers. Refer to Other Matters Global Restructuring Program below for further discussion of the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical restructuring program. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment revenue growth of $315 million or 4% during fiscal 2007 resulted primarily from increased volume from existing customers ($215 million) and new customer accounts ($100 million). Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment profit increased $4 million or 1% during 38 Table of Contents fiscal 2007. Gross margin increased segment profit by $27 million primarily as a result of revenue growth and the impact of increased manufacturer cash discounts ($6 million). Negatively impacting gross margin were increased customer discounts ($5 million) and trade receivable reserves ($7 million) related to the segments customer service and shared service transition. Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $23 million primarily in support of revenue growth and increased transportation costs ($5 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($14 million). During fiscal 2006, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment revenue growth of $376 million or 6% resulted primarily from increased volume from existing customers ($244 million) and new customer accounts ($115 million). Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment profit decreased $53 million or 14% during fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $53 million as a result of revenue growth and the favorable impact of the mix of private label and branded products ($9 million) due to emphasis being placed on selling Company branded products and other focused product categories and new products with higher margins ($4 million). Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $106 million in support of revenue growth and an increase in equity based compensation expense ($45 million) due primarily to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). Clinical Technologies and Services Performance During fiscal 2007, Clinical Technologies and Services segment revenue grew $257 million or 11%. Revenue growth was favorably impacted by new products ($119 million), increased sales volumes to existing customers ($90 million) due to renewals and expansion of product lines and new customers ($35 million). Acquisitions also favorably impacted the year over year comparison ($18 million). Clinical Technologies and Services segment profit increased $65 million or 20%. Gross margin increased segment profit by $132 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Gross margin was negatively impacted by the estimated costs of the Alaris SE pump corrective action plan and related consulting expenses ($18 million) due to the product recall. Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $67 million in support of the revenue growth and as a result of the impact of acquisitions ($22 million) and increased investment in product quality and research and development costs ($11 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($14 million). During fiscal 2006, Clinical Technologies and Services segment revenue growth of $241 million or 11% resulted primarily from revenue growth within the Pyxis and Alaris product lines. Pyxis products revenue increased $83 million due to higher unit sales resulting from increased demand for the Medstation 3000 product and improvements within the sales and installation cycles. Alaris products revenue increased $125 million due to competitive displacements driven by technological advantages and sales obtained through the Companys other relationships. These revenue increases were tempered by slower revenue growth in the clinical and consulting services ($52 million). Clinical Technologies and Services segment profit increased $82 million or 35% during fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $180 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included sales mix ($49 million) and manufacturing efficiencies ($12 million) driven by higher sales volume. Also favorably impacting the year over year comparison were the inventory valuation adjustments to fair value from the Alaris acquisition ($24 million) with the adjusted higher value inventory being sold during the first two quarters of fiscal 2005. Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $97 million due primarily to an increase in equity based compensation expense ($55 million) due primarily to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) and in support of the revenue growth. Estimated integration synergies from the Alaris acquisition ($54 million) favorably impacted both gross margin and SGA expenses. Medical Products Manufacturing Performance During fiscal 2007, Medical Products Manufacturing segment revenue grew $203 million or 12%. Revenue growth was favorably impacted by increased sales volume ($74 million) from existing customers and new customers won through new GPO contracts and competitor exits. Revenue growth was also favorably impacted by new product launches ($50 million), including innovations in gloves, respiratory products, surgical instruments and software, and international revenue growth ($62 million), which includes the impact of foreign exchange ($18 million). Acquisitions, including Denver Biomedical and Viasys, favorably impacted the year over year 39 Table of Contents comparison ($37 million). Due to the acquisition of Viasys, the Company expects significant growth in the Medical Products Manufacturing segment. Medical Products Manufacturing segment profit increased $33 million or 20% during fiscal 2007. Gross margin increased segment profit by $72 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included manufacturing cost reductions ($20 million) driven by strategic sourcing and expense control related to the Companys restructuring program and the integration of acquisitions ($21 million), primarily Denver Biomedical. Increases in SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by $39 million primarily in support of the segments revenue growth and from the impact of acquisitions ($13 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($12 million). During fiscal 2006, Medical Products Manufacturing segment revenue grew $96 million or 6% resulting from revenue growth from manufactured gloves and respiratory product lines ($45 million) due to new customer accounts ($14 million) and new products ($31 million) and international revenue growth ($16 million) from new customers. Medical Products Manufacturing segment profit decreased $11 million or 6% during fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $31 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included manufacturing cost reductions driven by cost controls ($30 million) and expense control partially related to the Companys global restructuring program ($12 million). Increased raw materials costs ($25 million) negatively impacted gross margin. Increases in SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by $42 million primarily due to the increase in equity based compensation ($41 million) and in support of the segments revenue growth. The latex litigation charge ($28 million) recorded during fiscal 2005 also favorably impacted the year over year comparison. Other Matters Acquisitions During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company acquired Viasys, which offered products and services directed at critical care ventilation, respiratory diagnostics and clinical services, neurological, vascular, audio, homecare, orthopedics, sleep diagnostics and other medical and surgical products markets. The value of the transaction, including the assumption of Viasyss debt, totaled approximately $1.5 billion. In addition, during fiscal 2007, the Company completed other acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these other acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $165 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $22 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations from the date of acquisition. Had the transactions, including Viasys, occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2006, consolidated results of operations would not have differed materially from reported results. For further information regarding the Companys acquisitions see Item 1 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. During fiscal 2006, the Company completed acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $364 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $149 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations from the date of acquisition. Had the transactions occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2005, consolidated results of operations would not have differed materially. During fiscal 2005, the Company completed acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $107 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $27 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations from the date of acquisition. Had the transactions occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2004, consolidated results of operations would not have differed materially. The Companys trend with regard to acquisitions has been to expand its role as a provider of services and innovative products to the healthcare industry. This trend has resulted in expansion into areas that complement the Companys existing operations and provide opportunities for the Company to develop synergies with, and strengthen, the acquired business. As the healthcare industry continues to change, the Company evaluates possible 40 Table of Contents candidates for acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry through all its reportable segments. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to successfully take advantage of any such opportunity if and when it arises or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are pursued or consummated, the Company would incur additional acquisition integration charges, and may need to enter into funding arrangements for such acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful. Sale of the PTS Business On April 10, 2007, the Company completed the sale of the PTS Business to Phoenix Charter LLC (Phoenix), an affiliate of The Blackstone Group, pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement between the Company and Phoenix, dated as of January 25, 2007 as amended (the Purchase Agreement). At the closing of the sale, the Company received approximately $3.2 billion in cash from Phoenix, which was the purchase price of approximately $3.3 billion as adjusted pursuant to certain provisions in the Purchase Agreement for the working capital, cash, indebtedness and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of the PTS Business. The Company recognized an after tax book gain of approximately $1.1 billion from this transaction. The Company used the after tax net proceeds of approximately $3.1 billion from the sale to repurchase shares. The Purchase Agreement contained customary indemnification provisions for sale transactions of this type. Global Restructuring Program During fiscal 2005, the Company launched a global restructuring program with a goal of increasing the value that the Company provides its customers through better integration of existing businesses and improved efficiency from a more disciplined approach to procurement and resource allocation. On April 30, 2007, the Company announced a third phase of its global restructuring program to move the headquarters of the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment and certain corporate functions from Waukegan, Illinois to the Companys corporate headquarters in Dublin, Ohio. The Company expects this third phase to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2009. See the Companys Form 8 K filed on April 30, 2007 for additional information. Adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) applying the modified prospective method. SFAS No. 123(R) requires all equity based payments to employees, including grants of employee options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for equity based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations, and equity based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure within the notes to the financial statements. In anticipation of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company did not modify the terms of any previously granted options. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Business Model Transition Historically, a significant portion of the pharmaceutical supply chain business gross margin was derived from the Companys ability to purchase pharmaceutical inventory, hold that inventory when a manufacturer increased prices, and sell that product at the higher price. Beginning in fiscal 2003, branded pharmaceutical manufacturers began to seek greater control over the amount of product available in the supply chain and, as a result, began to change their sales practices by restricting the volume of product available for purchase by wholesalers. In addition, manufacturers sought additional services from the Company, including providing data concerning product sales and distribution patterns. The Company believes that manufacturers sought these changes to provide them with greater visibility over product demand and movement in the market and to increase product safety and integrity by reducing the risks associated with product being available to, and distributed in, the secondary market. These changes significantly reduced the pharmaceutical price appreciation earned by the Company. 41 Table of Contents In response to these developments, the Company established a compensation system with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers that is significantly less dependent on manufacturers pricing practices, and is based on the services provided by the Company to meet the unique distribution requirements of each manufacturers products. During fiscal 2005, the Company worked with individual branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to define fee for service terms that compensate the Company based on the services being provided to such manufacturers. This transition was completed during fiscal 2006. These new arrangements have moderated the seasonality of earnings which have historically reflected the pattern of manufacturers price increases. Under the fee for service arrangements, reflected in written distribution service agreements, the Companys compensation for these services may be a fee or a fee plus pharmaceutical price appreciation. In certain instances, the Company must achieve certain performance criteria to receive the maximum fees under the agreement. The fee is typically a fixed percentage of either the Companys purchases from the manufacturer or the Companys sales of the manufacturers products to its customers. The Company continues to generate gross margin from the sale of some manufacturers products from pharmaceutical price appreciation without receiving distribution service agreement fees. If the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price appreciation slows, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Distribution service agreements between the Company and certain branded pharmaceutical manufacturers generally range from a one year term with an automatic renewal feature to a five year term. These agreements generally cannot be terminated unless mutually agreed by the parties, a breach of the agreement occurs that is not cured, or a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event occurs. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate the agreement without cause within a defined notice period. Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that can have a significant impact on the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and require use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Other companies applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing the Companys consolidated financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Allowance for doubtful accounts Trade receivables are amounts owed to the Company through its operating activities and are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company also provides financing to various customers. Such financing arrangements range from ninety days to ten years at interest rates that generally are subject to fluctuation. These financings may be collateralized, guaranteed by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivables are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and are included in other assets. Extending credit terms and calculating the required allowance for doubtful accounts involve the use of judgment by the Companys management. In determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, which includes portfolio and specific reserves, the Company reviews accounts receivable aging, industry trends, customer financial strength, credit standing, historical write off trends and payment history to assess the probability of collection. The Company continuously monitors the collectibility of its receivable portfolio by analyzing the aging of its accounts receivable, assessing credit worthiness of its customers and evaluating the impact of changes in economic conditions that may impact credit risks. If the frequency or severity of customer defaults change due to changes in customers financial condition or general economic conditions, the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts may require adjustment. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $128.9 million and $126.4 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This allowance represented 2.2% and 2.6% of customer receivables at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of revenue was 0.15%, 0.16% and 0.16% at June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts was reduced by $28.4 million, 42 Table of Contents $22.6 million and $21.2 million in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, for customer deductions and write offs and was increased by additional provisions of $24.0 million, $24.6 million and $7.7 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A hypothetical 0.1% increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables and sales type leases to the reserve at June 30, 2007 would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $5.9 million. Reserve methodologies are assessed annually based on historical losses and economic, business and market trends. In addition, reserves are reviewed quarterly and updated if unusual circumstances or trends are present. The Company believes the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal 2007 are appropriate and consistent with historical methodologies employed. At this time, the Company is not aware of any internal process or customer issues that might lead to a significant future increase in the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net revenue. See Schedule II included in this Form 10 K which includes a rollforward of activity for these allowance reserves. Inventories A substantial portion of inventories (approximately 73% and 75% at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively) are stated at the lower of cost, using the LIFO method, or market. These inventories are included within the core distribution facilities within the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment (core distribution facilities) and are primarily merchandise inventories. The LIFO impact on the consolidated statement of earnings in a given year is dependent on pharmaceutical price appreciation and the level of inventory. Prices for branded pharmaceuticals are primarily inflationary, which results in an increase in cost of products sold, whereas prices for generic pharmaceuticals are deflationary, which results in a decrease in cost of products sold. Under the LIFO method, it is assumed that the most recent inventory purchases are the first items sold. As such, the Company uses LIFO to better match current costs and revenue. Therefore, reductions in the overall inventory levels resulting from declining branded pharmaceutical inventory levels generally will result in a decrease in future cost of products sold, as the remaining inventory will be held at a lower cost due to the inflationary environment. Conversely, reductions in the overall inventory levels created by declining generic pharmaceutical inventory levels would generally increase future cost of products sold, as the remaining inventory will be held at a higher cost due to the deflationary environment. The Company believes that the average cost method of inventory valuation provides a reasonable approximation of the current cost of replacing inventory within the core distribution facilities. As such, the LIFO reserve is the difference between (a) inventory at the lower of LIFO cost or market and (b) inventory at replacement cost determined using the average cost method of inventory valuation. In fiscal 2007, the Company did not record any LIFO reserve reductions. The LIFO reserve reduction in fiscal 2006 of $26.0 million was primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories. The remaining inventory is primarily stated at the lower of cost, using the first in, first out (FIFO) method, or market. If the Company had used the average cost method of inventory valuation for all inventory within the core distribution facilities, inventories would not have changed in fiscal 2007 or fiscal 2006. In fact, primarily due to continued deflation in generic pharmaceutical inventories, inventories at LIFO were $55.8 million and $1.0 million higher than the average cost value as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. However, the Companys policy is not to record inventories in excess of its current market value. Inventories recorded on the Companys consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory which were $95.8 million and $112.2 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company reserves for inventory obsolescence using estimates based on historical experiences, sales trends, specific categories of inventory and age of on hand inventory. If actual conditions are less favorable than the Companys assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required, however these would not be expected to have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Business Combinations Assumptions and estimates are used in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of the Companys acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets which require management to use significant judgment in determining fair value. The Company typically utilizes third party valuation experts for this process. In addition, current and future amortization expense 43 Table of Contents for such intangibles is impacted by purchase price allocations as well as the assessment of estimated useful lives of such intangibles, excluding goodwill. The Company believes the assets recorded and the useful lives established are appropriate based upon current facts and circumstances. In conjunction with the review of a transaction, the valuation experts assess the status of the acquired companys research and development projects to determine the existence of IPRD. In connection with the acquisitions of Viasys and Care Fusion, the Company was required to estimate the fair value of acquired IPRD which required selecting an appropriate discount rate and estimating future cash flows for each project. Management also assessed the current status of development, nature and timing of efforts to complete such development, uncertainties and other factors when estimating the fair value. Costs were not assigned to IPRD unless future development was probable. Once the fair value was determined, an asset was established, and in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method, was immediately written off as a special item in the Companys consolidated statement of earnings. The Company recorded $83.9 million and $0.6 million as a special item in fiscal 2007 representing an estimate of Viasyss and Care Fusions acquired IPRD, respectively (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Goodwill and Other Intangibles The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Under SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily customer relationships and patents and trademarks, continue to be amortized over their useful lives. In conducting the impairment test, the fair value of the Companys reporting units is compared to its carrying amount including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, further analysis is performed to assess impairment. The Companys determination of fair value of the reporting units is based on a discounted cash flow analysis or a review of the price/earnings ratio for publicly traded companies similar in nature, scope and size. The methods and assumptions used to test impairment have been revised for the segment realignment for the periods presented. The discount rate used for impairment testing is based on the risk free rate plus an adjustment for risk factors. The use of alternative estimates, peer groups or changes in the industry, or adjusting the discount rate used could affect the estimated fair value of the assets and potentially result in impairment. Any identified impairment would result in an adjustment to the Companys results of operations. The Company performed its annual impairment tests in fiscal 2007 and 2006, neither of which resulted in the recognition of any impairment charges. Decreasing the price/earnings ratio of competitors used for impairment testing by one point or increasing the discount rate in the discounted cash flow analysis used for impairment testing by 1% would not have indicated impairment for any of the Companys reporting units for fiscal 2007 or 2006. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill and other intangibles. Special Items The Company records restructuring charges, acquisition integration charges and certain litigation and other items as special items. A restructuring activity is a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. Under this Statement, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred. Acquisition integration charges include costs to integrate acquired companies. Upon acquisition, certain integration charges are included within the purchase price allocation in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, and other integration charges are recorded as special items as incurred. 44 Table of Contents Certain litigation recorded in special items consists of settlements of significant lawsuits that are infrequent, non recurring or unusual in nature. The Company also classified legal fees and document preservation and production costs incurred in connection with the SEC investigation and the Audit Committee internal review and related matters as special items. The majority of the special items related to acquisition integration and restructurings can be classified in one of the following categories: employee related costs, exit costs (including lease termination costs), asset impairments and other integration costs. Employee costs include severance and termination benefits. Lease termination costs include lease cancellation fees, forfeited deposits and remaining payments due under existing lease agreements less estimated sublease income. Other facility exit costs include costs to move equipment or inventory out of a facility as well as other costs incurred to shut down a facility. Asset impairment costs include the reduction in value of the Companys assets as a result of the integration or restructuring activities. Other integration costs primarily include charges directly related to the integration plan such as consulting costs related to information systems and employee benefit plans as well as relocation and travel costs directly associated with the integration plan. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Vendor Reserves The Company maintains reserves to cover areas of exposure with its vendors. In determining appropriate vendor reserves, the Company assesses historical experience and current outstanding claims. The Company has established various levels of reserves based on the type of claim and status of review. The Company researches and resolves various types of contested transactions based on discussions with vendors, Company policy and findings of research performed. Though the transaction types are relatively consistent, the Company has periodically refined its estimate methodology over the past few years by updating the reserve estimate percentages based upon historical experiences. Changes to the estimate percentages have resulted in a financial impact to the Companys cost of products sold in the period in which the change was made. Vendor reserves were $72.6 million and $112.4 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Approximately 61% and 73% of the vendor reserve at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, pertained to the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. Fluctuations in the reserve balance are caused by the variations of outstanding claims from period to period, timing of settlements and specific vendor issues, such as bankruptcies (significant events would be described above in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Though vendor transactions remain relatively consistent from period to period, unforeseen events such as the deterioration in the financial condition of a large vendor or a settlement of numerous outstanding claims could cause the reserve to fluctuate, and thus, have a financial impact on the periods financial results. At any given time, there are outstanding items in various stages of research and resolution. The ultimate outcome of certain claims may be different than the Companys original estimate and may require adjustment. However, the Company believes reserves recorded for such disputes are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. Self Insurance Accruals The Company is self insured for employee medical and dental insurance programs. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $24.3 million and $24.1 million for estimated costs related to outstanding claims at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, administrative fees and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. These estimates are based on the Companys assessment of outstanding claims, historical analysis and current payment trends. The Company records an estimate for the claims incurred but not reported using an estimated lag period. This lag period assumption has been consistently applied for the periods presented. If the lag period was hypothetically adjusted by a period equal to a half month, the impact on earnings would be $6.0 million. If the amount of claims, medical or dental costs increase beyond what was estimated, the reserve might not be sufficient and additional expense could be required. However, the Company believes the liabilities recorded are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. 45 Table of Contents Medical and dental insurance expense was $174.6 million, $140.5 million and $140.4 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Through a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, the Company has certain deductibles or is self insured for various risks including general liability, product liability, pharmacist professional liability, auto liability, property and workers compensation. However, claims in excess of certain limits are insured with commercial insurers. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $82.2 million and $76.3 million for anticipated costs related to liability, property and workers compensation at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, defense costs, claims adjustment costs and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. For certain types of exposures the Company uses third parties to assist in developing the estimate of expected ultimate costs to settle each claim which is based on specific information related to each claim. For claims incurred but not reported the liabilities are calculated by outside actuaries and are derived in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practices. The amount of ultimate liability in respect to these matters is dependent on future contingent events that cannot be predicted with certainty and may differ from these estimates. Although the Company believes that liability estimates are appropriate based on information available at June 30, 2007, it is possible, based on generally accepted actuarial analysis, that under adverse conditions the ultimate liability could exceed recorded expected liabilities as of June 30, 2007 by as much as $4.9 million. The insurance expense for general liability, product liability, pharmacist professional liability, auto liability, property and workers compensation was $70.4 million, $71.3 million and $66.5 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and income tax reserves reflect managements assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the financial statements. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards for tax purposes. The Company had net deferred income tax assets of $394.2 million and $461.1 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company also had net deferred income tax liabilities of $1.7 billion at June 30, 2007 and 2006. Net deferred income tax assets included net federal, state and local, and international loss and credit carry forwards at June 30, 2007 and 2006 of $178.2 million and $84.9 million, respectively. The Company established a net valuation allowance of $180.5 million and $34.4 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, against certain deferred tax assets, which primarily relates to federal and state loss carryforwards for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. The Company established a $127.1 million valuation allowance in fiscal 2007 related to capital loss carryforwards resulting from the PTS Business divestiture for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. Expiring carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted annually. After application of the valuation allowances described above, the Company anticipates no limitations will apply with respect to utilization of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described above. In addition, the Company has established an estimated liability for federal, state and non U.S. income tax exposures that arise and meet the criteria for accrual under SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company prepares and files tax returns based on its interpretation of tax laws and regulations and records estimates based on these judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business, the Companys tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation, regulation and or as concluded through the various jurisdictions tax court systems. The Company has developed a methodology for estimating its tax liability related to such matters and has consistently followed such methodology from period to period. The liability amounts for such matters are based on an evaluation of the underlying facts and circumstances, a thorough research of the technical merits of the Companys arguments and an assessment of the probability of the Company prevailing in its arguments. In all cases, the Company considers previous findings of the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company generally consults with external tax advisers in reaching its conclusions. Amounts accrued for a particular period are adjusted when a significant change in facts or circumstances has occurred. 46 Table of Contents The Company believes that its estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and tax contingency reserves are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop a different estimate and the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued. In addition to income mix from geographical regions, the significant assumptions and estimates described in the preceding paragraphs are important contributors to the ultimate effective tax rate in each year. Although not material to the effective tax rate for the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, if any of the Companys assumptions or estimates were to change, an increase/decrease in the Companys effective tax rate by 1% on earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations would have caused income tax expense to increase/decrease by $12.5 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company is required to adopt the provisions of FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. This standard also provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. This interpretation also provides guidance on measurement, derecognizing, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The Company is currently assessing the impact of FIN No. 48 on its consolidated financial statements. Loss Contingencies The Company accrues for contingencies related to litigation in accordance with SFAS No. 5, which requires the Company to assess contingencies to determine degree of probability and range of possible settlement. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in the Companys consolidated financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the settlement can be reasonably estimated. Assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. The Company regularly reviews contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of ultimate settlement may differ from these estimates. Equity Based Compensation During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, applying the modified prospective method. This Statement requires all equity based payments to employees, including grants of options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. The fair values of options granted after the Company adopted this Statement were determined using a lattice valuation model and all options granted prior to adoption of this Statement were valued using a Black Scholes model. The Companys estimate of an options fair value is dependent on a complex estimation process that requires the estimation of future uncertain events. These estimates which are entered within the option valuation model include, but are not limited to, stock price volatility, the expected option life, expected dividend yield and option forfeiture rates. Effective with all options granted subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company estimates its future stock price volatility based on implied volatility from traded options on the Companys Common Shares and historical volatility over a period of time commensurate with the contractual term of the option grant (7 years). The Company analyzed historical data to estimate option exercise behaviors and employee terminations to estimate the expected option life and forfeiture rates. The Company calculated separate option valuations for three separate groups of employees with similar historical exercise behaviors. Once employee stock option values are determined, current accounting practices do not permit them to be changed, even if the estimates used in the valuation model are different from actual results. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the Company to compare its estimated option forfeiture rates to actual forfeiture rates and record any adjustments as necessary. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. 47 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources and Uses of Cash The following table summarizes the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Net cash provided by/(used in) continuing operations: Operating activities $ 1,003.0 $ 1,850.2 $ 2,475.6 Investing activities (1,611.5 ) (1,087.2 ) (693.9 ) Financing activities (2,593.4 ) (1,015.8 ) (1,652.7 ) Net cash provided by/(used in) discontinued operations: Operating activities $ 220.1 $ 270.6 $ 380.1 Investing activities 3,148.7 (100.0 ) (182.2 ) Financing activities (45.4 ) (16.4 ) (4.6 ) Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations during fiscal 2007 totaled $1.0 billion, a decrease of $847 million when compared to fiscal 2006. The decrease was a result of the decline in net income from continuing operations ($324 million) due to the litigation charges and cash settlements made in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 ($655 million). See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the litigation settlements. The increase in trade receivables ($783 million) was based on the repurchase of trade receivables ($550 million) under the Companys committed receivables program, as discussed in Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In line with the Companys focus on capital deployment, inventory levels declined $217 million and accounts payable increased $224 million. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations during fiscal 2006 totaled $1.9 billion, a decrease of $625 million when compared to fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily a result of the net proceeds received during fiscal 2005 under the Companys committed receivables sales facility program ($550 million). See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding this program. During fiscal 2006, the accounts payable increase ($1.5 billion) was partially offset by increased inventories ($356 million) and increased accounts receivable ($895 million). The accounts payable, trade receivable and inventory increases were due to new sales volume from an existing large retail chain customer and the timing of inventory purchases from vendors in the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations during fiscal 2007 totaled $220 million. Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations in fiscal 2007 was a result of earnings from discontinued operations ($1.1 billion) less the gain on the sale of the PTS Business ($1.1 billion). Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations during fiscal 2006 and 2005 totaled $271 million and $380 million, respectively. Net cash provided by discontinued operations in fiscal 2006 and 2005 was a result of the loss from discontinued operations ($163 million and $16 million, respectively), offset by the changes in the operating assets and liabilities from discontinued operations. Investing activities. Net cash used by investing activities for continuing operations of $1.6 billion during fiscal 2007 reflected cash used to complete acquisitions to broaden and enhance product offerings, including Viasys within the Medical Products Manufacturing segment, MedMined and Care Fusion within the Clinical Technologies and Services segment and SpecialtyScripts within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. See Acquisitions and Divestitures within Item 1 Business of this Form 10 K and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Companys acquisitions. Proceeds from the sale of short term investments classified as available for sale ($367 million) were offset by capital spending ($357 million) to develop and enhance the Companys infrastructure including facilities, information systems and machinery and equipment. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Companys investments. 48 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities for continuing operations of $1.1 billion during fiscal 2006 reflected the Companys purchase of short term investments classified as available for sale ($399 million) and capital spending ($340 million). In addition, during fiscal 2006, the Company used cash to complete acquisitions ($362 million) which expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry and are primarily associated with the acquisitions of Dohmen and ParMed within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, Denver Biomedical within the Medical Products Manufacturing segment and the remaining minority interest of Source Medical within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment. Net cash used in investing activities for continuing operations during fiscal 2005 of $694 million reflected the Companys capital spending ($340 million), the acquisitions of Alaris and Geodax ($273 million) and the purchase of short term investments classified as available for sale ($100 million). Net cash provided by investing activities for discontinued operations in fiscal 2007 of $3.1 billion reflected proceeds from the PTS Business divestiture ($3.2 billion) offset by capital spending ($108 million). Net cash used in investing activities for discontinued operations in fiscal 2006 and 2005 of $100 million and $182 million, respectively, primarily represents capital spending ($103 million and $214 million, respectively). Financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities for continuing operations of $2.6 billion during fiscal 2007 reflected the Companys repurchase of its Common Shares ($3.7 billion) and dividend payments to shareholders ($144 million). See Share Repurchases below for additional information. The Company also used cash to repay long term obligations ($784 million). Cash provided by financing activities included proceeds received from the issuance of long term obligations, net of issuance costs ($1.5 billion) and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans ($553 million). See Capital Resources below for further discussion of the Companys financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities for continuing operations of $1.0 billion during fiscal 2006 reflected the Companys repurchase of its Common Shares ($1.5 billion) and dividend payments to shareholders ($102 million). The Company also used cash to purchase certain buildings and equipment which were under capital lease agreements ($258 million) reflected in the reduction of long term obligations. Cash provided by financing activities includes proceeds received from the issuance of long term obligations, net of issuance costs ($497 million) and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans ($241 million). Net cash used in financing activities for continuing operations of $1.7 billion during fiscal 2005 reflected the Companys decisions to retire debt ($1.9 billion) and commercial paper ($551 million) assumed in the Alaris acquisition. The Company also used cash to repurchase its Common Shares ($500 million) and pay dividends to shareholders ($52 million) as authorized by its Board of Directors. Cash provided by financing activities include proceeds received from the issuance of long term obligations, net of issuance costs ($1.3 billion) and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans ($111 million). Net cash used in financing activities for discontinued operations in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 reflected $39 million, $48 million and $22 million, respectively, in repayments on borrowings. Sources of cash for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 were additional borrowings of $4 million, $29 million and $17 million, respectively. International Cash The Companys cash balance of approximately $1.3 billion as of June 30, 2007 included approximately $707 million of cash held by its subsidiaries outside of the United States. Although the vast majority of cash held outside the United States is available for repatriation, doing so subjects it to United States federal income tax. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding income taxes. Share Repurchases The Company repurchased approximately $5.8 billion of its Common Shares, in the aggregate, through share repurchase programs during fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. During fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased $3.8 billion of its Common Shares under a $4.5 billion repurchase program or 53.8 million shares at an average price per share of $69.79. This $4.5 billion repurchase program will expire on June 30, 2008. On August 8, 2007, the Company announced a new $2.0 billion share repurchase program which expires on August 31, 2009. The share repurchase activity (apart from the use of net proceeds from the PTS Business divestiture) supports the Companys previously 49 Table of Contents stated long term goal to return 50% of net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations to shareholders. During fiscal 2006 and 2005 the Company repurchased $1.5 billion and $500 million, respectively, of Common Shares. The Companys fiscal 2006 and 2005 Common Share repurchases represent 22.0 million and 8.9 million shares at an average price per share of $68.39 and $56.76, respectively. See Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities within Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for further information regarding the Companys most recent share repurchase program. Capital Resources In addition to cash, the Companys sources of liquidity include a $1.5 billion commercial paper program backed by a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility and a committed receivables sales facility program with the capacity to sell $800 million in receivables. The Company increased the commercial paper program from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion on February 28, 2007. The Company had no outstanding borrowings from the commercial paper program at June 30, 2007. On January 24, 2007, the Company amended certain terms of the revolving credit facility which is available for general corporate purposes. As part of the amendment, the amount of the facility was increased from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion and the term was extended to January 24, 2012. At expiration, this facility can be extended upon mutual consent of the Company and the lending institutions. This revolving credit facility exists largely to support issuances of commercial paper as well as other short term borrowings for general corporate purposes and remained unused at June 30, 2007, except for $79 million of standby letters of credit issued on behalf of the Company. During the second quarter, the Company repurchased the aggregate $550 million of receivable interests outstanding under its committed receivables sales facility program with the capacity to sell $800 million in receivables. After these repurchases, the Company did not have any receivable interest sales outstanding under its receivables sales facility program. On October 31, 2006, the Company renewed the receivables sales facility program for a period of one year. See Note 19 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Companys committed receivables sales facility program. The Company also maintains other short term credit facilities and an unsecured line of credit that allows for borrowings up to $131 million, of which $29 million was outstanding at June 30, 2007. The Company entered into a $500 million short term loan facility on March 30, 2007 and it was terminated on April 10, 2007. The Company also terminated a $150 million extendible commercial note program in the third quarter of fiscal 2007. On October 3, 2006, the Company sold $350 million aggregate principal amount of 2009 floating rate notes and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.80% notes due 2016 in a private offering. The proceeds of the debt issuance were used to repay $500 million of the Companys preferred debt securities, $127 million of the 7.30% notes due 2006 and other short term obligations of the Company. On June 8, 2007, the Company sold $300 million aggregate principal amount of 5.65% notes due 2012 and $300 million aggregate principal amount of 6.00% notes due 2017 in a private offering. The proceeds of the debt issuance were used to fund a portion of the purchase price of the Viasys acquisition and for general corporate purposes. During fiscal 2001, the Company entered into an agreement to periodically sell trade receivables to a special purpose accounts receivable and financing entity (the Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity), which is exclusively engaged in purchasing trade receivables from, and making loans to, the Company. The Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity, which is consolidated by the Company as it is the primary beneficiary of the variable interest entity, issued $250 million and $400 million in preferred variable debt securities to parties not affiliated with the Company during fiscal 2004 and 2001, respectively. On October 26, 2006, the Company amended certain of the facility terms of the Companys preferred debt securities. As part of this amendment, the Company 50 Table of Contents repaid $500 million of the principal balance with a portion of the proceeds of the October 2006 sale of notes discussed above and a minimum net worth covenant was added whereby the minimum net worth of the Company cannot fall below $5.0 billion at any time. The amendment eliminated a minimum adjusted tangible net worth covenant (adjusted tangible net worth could not fall below $2.5 billion) and certain financial ratio covenants. After the repayment, the Company had $150 million of preferred debt securities outstanding. These preferred debt securities are classified as long term obligations, less current portion and other short term obligations in the Companys consolidated balance sheet. See Notes 10 and 19 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about the Companys capital resources. From time to time, the Company considers and engages in acquisition transactions in order to expand its role as a leading provider of products and services that improve the safety and productivity of healthcare. The Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its role as a provider of products and services to the healthcare industry through all its reportable segments. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, the Company may need to enter into funding arrangements for such mergers or acquisitions. The Company currently believes that, based upon existing cash, operating cash flows, available capital resources (as discussed above) and other available market transactions, it has adequate capital resources at its disposal to fund currently anticipated capital expenditures, business growth and expansion, contractual obligations and current and projected debt service requirements, including those related to business combinations. Debt Ratings/Covenants The Companys senior debt credit ratings from SP, Moodys and Fitch are BBB, Baa2 and BBB+, respectively, and the commercial paper ratings are A 2, P 2 and F2, respectively. The Moodys and Fitch rating outlooks are stable and the SP outlook is positive. The Companys various borrowing facilities and long term debt are free of any financial covenants other than minimum net worth which cannot fall below $5.0 billion at any time. As of June 30, 2007, the Company was in compliance with this covenant. A breach of this covenant would be followed by a grace period during which the Company may discuss remedies with the security holders, or extinguish the securities, without causing an event of default. Interest Rate and Currency Risk Management The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to cash flow variability. The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to protect the value of its existing foreign currency assets and liabilities and the value of its debt. See Notes 1 and 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives, including foreign currency hedging instruments. 51 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2007, the Companys contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows (in millions): 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total On Balance Sheet: Long term debt(1) $ 13.1 $ 655.0 $ 789.4 $ 1,999.8 $ 3,457.3 Interest on long term debt 202.0 376.0 302.2 732.5 1,612.7 Capital lease obligations(2) 3.7 6.4 5.4 4.0 19.5 Other long term liabilities(3) 14.9 21.0 7.2 0.1 43.2 Off Balance Sheet: Operating leases(4) 105.2 159.4 113.1 114.0 491.7 Purchase obligations(5) 499.4 58.9 36.0 10.5 604.8 Total financial obligations $ 838.3 $ 1,276.7 $ 1,253.3 $ 2,860.9 $ 6,229.2 (1) Represents maturities of the Companys long term debt obligations excluding capital lease obligations described below. See Note 10 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (2) Represents maturities of the Companys capital lease obligations included within long term obligations on the Companys balance sheet and the related estimated future interest payments. (3) Represents cash outflows by period for certain of the Companys long term liabilities in which cash outflows could be reasonably estimated. Certain long term liabilities, such as deferred taxes, have been excluded from the table above as there are no cash outflows associated with the liabilities or the timing of the cash outflows cannot reasonably be estimated. (4) Represents minimum rental payments and the related estimated future interest payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms as described in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (5) Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and specifying all significant terms, including the following: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which the Company is obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally cancelled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from the Companys total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. The significant amount disclosed within fiscal 2008, as compared to other periods, primarily represents obligations to purchase inventories within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements See Liquidity and Capital Resources Capital Resources above and Note 19 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of off balance sheet arrangements. Recent Financial Accounting Standards See Note 1 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards. 52 Table of Contents Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The Company is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations as a result of certain market risks. These market risks primarily relate to foreign exchange, interest rate, and commodity related changes. The Company maintains a comprehensive hedging program to manage volatility related to these market exposures. It employs operational, economic, and derivative financial instruments in order to mitigate risk. See Notes 1 and 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Companys use of derivative instruments. Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity By nature of the Companys global operations, it is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations resulting from foreign exchange rate variation. These exposures are transactional and translational in nature. Since the Company manufactures and sells its products throughout the world, its foreign currency risk is diversified. Principal drivers of this diversified foreign exchange exposure include the Canadian dollar, European euro, Mexican peso, Thai baht, British pound, and Australian dollar. Transactional Exposure The Companys transactional exposure arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than the functional currency of the parent or its subsidiaries. As part of its risk management program, at the end of each fiscal year the Company performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted transactional exposure for the upcoming fiscal year. The analysis utilizes an implied volatility measurement for each currency to estimate the net potential gain or loss. The analysis included the estimated impact of its hedging program, which mitigates the Companys transactional exposure. At June 30, 2007 and 2006, the Company had hedged approximately 46% and 44%, respectively, of its transactional exposures. The following table summarizes the analysis as it relates to the Companys transactional exposure (in millions): 2007 2006 Net estimated transactional exposure $ 667.4 $ 471.4 Sensitivity gain/loss 45.6 39.5 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (20.6 ) (17.3 ) Estimated net gain/loss $ 25.0 $ 22.2 Translational Exposure The Company also has exposure related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign divisions into U.S. dollars, the functional currency of the parent. It performs a similar analysis as described above related to this translational exposure. The Company does not typically hedge any of its translational exposure and no hedging impact was included in the Companys analysis at June 30, 2007 and 2006. The following table summarizes the Companys translational exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening in the U.S. dollar (in millions): 2007 2006 Net estimated translational exposure $ 89.0 $ 93.0 Sensitivity gain/loss 8.9 9.3 Interest Rate Sensitivity The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing and investing activities to maintain liquidity and fund business operations. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions and other factors. The Companys policy is to manage exposures to interest rates using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt as deemed appropriate by management. The Company utilizes interest rate swap instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate movements. 53 Table of Contents As part of its risk management program, the Company annually performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted exposure to interest rates for the following fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. At June 30, 2007 and 2006, the potential increase or decrease in interest expense under this analysis as a result of this hypothetical change was $9.4 million and $6.2 million, respectively. Commodity Price Sensitivity The Company purchases certain commodities for use in its manufacturing processes, which include latex, heating oil, diesel fuel and polystyrene, among others. The Company typically purchases these commodities at market prices, and as a result, is affected by price fluctuations. As part of its risk management program, the Company performs sensitivity analysis on its forecasted commodity exposure for the following fiscal year. At June 30, 2007 and 2006, the Company had not hedged any of these exposures. The table below summarizes the Companys analysis of these forecasted commodity exposures and a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices as of June 30, 2007 and 2006 (in millions): 2007 2006 Estimated commodity exposure $ 251.3 $ 173.7 Sensitivity gain/loss 25.1 17.4 The Company also has exposure to certain energy related commodities, including natural gas and electricity through its normal course of business. These exposures result primarily from operating the Companys distribution, manufacturing, and corporate facilities. In certain deregulated markets, the Company from time to time enters into long term purchase contracts to supply these items at a specific price. 54 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Customers The Companys largest customers, CVS Corporation (CVS) and Walgreen Co. (Walgreens), accounted for approximately 21% and 19%, respectively, of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2007. The aggregate of the Companys five largest customers, including CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 50% of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2007. All of the Companys business with its five largest customers is included in its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. The loss of one or more of these five customers could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Businesses in each of the Companys reportable segments have agreements with group purchasing organizations (GPOs) that act as agents that negotiate vendor contracts on behalf of their members. Approximately 10% of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2007 was derived from GPO members through the contractual arrangements established with Novation, LLC (Novation) and Premier Purchasing Partners, L.P. (Premier), the Companys two largest GPO relationships in terms of member revenue. Generally, compliance by GPO members with GPO vendor selections is voluntary. As such, the Company believes the loss of any of the Companys agreements with a 8 Table of Contents GPO would not mean the loss of sales to all members of the GPO, although the loss of such an agreement could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. See Note 1 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Companys concentrations of credit risk and major customers. Suppliers The Company obtains its products from many different suppliers. Products obtained from the Companys five largest suppliers accounted on a combined basis for approximately 20% of the Companys revenue during fiscal 2007. No one suppliers products accounted for more than 5% of the Companys revenue in fiscal 2007. Overall, the Company believes that its relationships with its suppliers are good. The loss of certain suppliers could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition if alternative sources of supply were unavailable at reasonable prices. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical Historically, a significant portion of pharmaceutical supply chains gross margin was derived from the Companys ability to purchase inventory, hold that inventory when a manufacturer increased prices and sell that product at the higher price. Beginning in fiscal 2003, branded pharmaceutical manufacturers began to seek greater control over the amount of product available in the supply chain and, as a result, began to change their sales practices by restricting the volume of product available for purchase by wholesalers. In addition, manufacturers sought additional services from the Company, including providing data concerning product sales and distribution patterns. The Company believes that manufacturers sought these changes to provide them with greater visibility over product demand and movement in the market and to increase product safety and integrity by reducing the risks associated with product being available to, and distributed in, the secondary market. These changes significantly reduced the pharmaceutical price appreciation earned by the Company. In response to these developments, the Company established a compensation system with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers that is significantly less dependent on manufacturers pricing practices, and is based on the services provided by the Company to meet the unique distribution requirements of each manufacturers products. During fiscal 2005, the Company worked with individual branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to define fee for service terms that compensate the Company based on the services being provided to such manufacturers. This transition was completed during fiscal 2006. These new arrangements have moderated the seasonality of earnings which have historically reflected the pattern of manufacturers price increases. The Companys fee for service arrangements are reflected in written distribution service agreements. Distribution service agreements between the Company and certain branded pharmaceutical manufacturers generally range from a one year term with an automatic renewal feature to a five year term. These agreements generally cannot be terminated unless mutually agreed by the parties, a breach of the agreement occurs that is not cured, or a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event occurs. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate the agreement without cause within a defined notice period. See the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Business Model discussion under Reportable Segments Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical above for more information regarding distribution service agreement fees. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical The Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment purchases products from a wide range of medical products suppliers for distribution to its customers. This segment, at times, purchases medical and laboratory products from suppliers other than the original manufacturer of such products. Certain manufacturers have adopted policies limiting the ability of the segments businesses to purchase products from anyone other than the manufacturer. If this practice becomes more widespread, the ability of the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment to purchase products from other distributors, as well as its ability to sell excess inventories to other distributors, may be impaired. This could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing The Clinical Technologies and Services segment uses purchased components in the products it manufactures, including custom designed components and assemblies. The Medical Products Manufacturing segment uses a broad range of raw materials, compounds and purchased components in the products it manufactures, including latex and resins. In certain circumstances, the Companys results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by raw material or component cost increases because the Company may not be able to fully recover the increased costs from the customer or offset the increased cost through productivity improvements. In addition, although most of these raw materials or components are generally available, certain raw materials or components used by the Companys manufacturing businesses may be available only from a limited number of suppliers. Where there are a limited number of suppliers, the Company may experience shortages in supply, and as a result, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. With respect to certain products, the Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing segments contract with third party manufacturers for all or some aspects of their product manufacturing. These segments also source certain finished products from third party suppliers. Competition The Company operates in markets that are highly competitive. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical In the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, the Companys pharmaceutical supply chain business faces competition in the United States from two other national wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) and a number of smaller regional wholesale distributors, self warehousing chains, direct selling manufacturers, specialty distributors and third party logistics companies on the basis of a value proposition that includes pricing, breadth of product lines, service offerings and support services. The pharmaceutical supply chain business has narrow profit margins and, accordingly, the Companys earnings depend significantly on its ability to: compete effectively on the pricing of pharmaceutical products; distribute a large volume and variety of products efficiently; establish and maintain low cost sourcing arrangements with generic pharmaceutical manufacturers; provide quality support services; enter into and maintain satisfactory arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers so it is compensated for the services it provides manufacturers; and effectively manage inventory and other working capital items. This segments nuclear pharmacies compete with nuclear pharmacy companies and distributors engaged in the preparation and delivery of radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging procedures in hospitals and clinics, including numerous national and regional networks of radiopharmacies, numerous independent radiopharmacies and manufacturers and universities that have established their own radiopharmacies. This segments nuclear pharmacies compete based upon a variety of factors, including price, quality, customer service, proprietary technologies or capabilities and responsiveness. With respect to pharmacy franchising operations, a few smaller franchisors compete with Medicine Shoppe in the franchising of pharmacies, with competition being based primarily upon financial assistance offered to qualified franchisees, aggregation of purchase volume, operational support and assistance, benefits offered to both the pharmacist and the customer, access to third party programs, brand awareness and marketing support and pricing. Medicine Shoppe also needs to be competitive with a pharmacists ongoing options to operate an independent pharmacy or work for a chain pharmacy. 10 Table of Contents Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical The Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment faces competition both in the United States and in Canada. Competitive factors within this segment include price, order filling accuracy (both invoicing and product selection), breadth of product offerings, product availability and service offerings. This segment competes across several customer classes with many different distributors, including Owens Minor, Inc., Fisher Scientific International, Inc., Physician Sales Service, Inc., Henry Schein, Inc. and Medline Industries, Inc., among others. This segment also competes with a number of smaller regional medical products distributors and also with third party logistics companies. Clinical Technologies and Services The Companys Clinical Technologies and Services segment faces competition in both its domestic and international markets. Its infusion products compete based upon quality, technological innovation, price, patents and other intellectual property and the value proposition of helping improve patient outcomes while reducing overall costs associated with medication safety. Competitors with respect to infusion products include both domestic and foreign companies, including Hospira, Inc., B. Braun Medical, Inc., Baxter International, Inc. and Fresenius AG. This segments dispensing products (including supply dispensing products) compete based upon quality, relationships with customers, price, customer service and support capabilities, patents and other intellectual property and its ability to interface with customer information systems. Actual and potential competitors with respect to dispensing products include both existing domestic and foreign companies, including McKesson Corporation and Omnicell, Inc., as well as emerging companies that supply products for specialized markets and other outside service providers. This segments pharmacy services compete based on range and quality of services, price, effective use of information systems, development and implementation of clinical programs and the established base of existing operations. Competitors include both national and regional hospital pharmacy management and remote order entry firms, including McKesson Corporation, as well as self managed hospitals and hospital systems. Medical Products Manufacturing The Companys Medical Products Manufacturing segment faces competition in both its domestic and international markets. Competitive factors include product innovation, performance, quality, price and brand recognition. This segment competes against several medical product manufacturers, including Kimberly Clark Corporation, Covidien Ltd. (formerly Tyco Healthcare), Teleflex Incorporated, Medline Industries, Inc., Ansell Limited, 3M Company, Getinge AB, Drger Medical AG Co. KG and Respironics, Inc., among others. Employees As of June 30, 2007, the Company had approximately 28,800 employees in the United States and approximately 14,700 employees outside of the United States. Overall, the Company considers its employee relations to be good. Intellectual Property The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect its products, services and intangible assets. These proprietary rights are important to the Companys ongoing operations. The Company operates under licenses for certain proprietary technology and in certain instances licenses its technology to third parties. The Company has applied in the United States and certain foreign countries for registration of a number of trademarks and service marks, some of which have been registered, and also holds common law rights in various trademarks and service marks. It is possible that in some cases the Company may be unable to obtain the registrations for trademarks and service marks for which it has applied. 11 Table of Contents Through its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, the Company holds patents relating to certain aspects of its nuclear pharmacy products. Through its Clinical Technologies and Services segment, the Company holds patents relating to certain aspects of its automated pharmaceutical dispensing systems, automated medication management systems, medical devices, infusion therapy systems, infusion administration sets, drug delivery systems and infection surveillance and reporting systems. Through its Medical Products Manufacturing segment, the Company holds patents relating to certain aspects of its medical and surgical products and devices, including surgical and exam gloves, drapes, gowns, respiratory therapy devices, patient prep products and surgical instruments. The Company also holds patents relating to certain processes and products across all segments. The Company has a number of pending patent applications in the United States and certain foreign countries, and intends to pursue additional patents as appropriate. The Company has enforced and will continue to enforce its intellectual property rights in the United States and worldwide. The Company does not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to its overall business. Regulatory Matters Certain of the Companys subsidiaries may be required to register for permits and or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of, the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (the DEA), the Food and Drug Administration (the FDA), the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the NRC), the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and or comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies, and certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale. These subsidiaries include those that: distribute and or engage in logistics services for prescription pharmaceuticals (including certain controlled substances) and or medical devices; manage or own pharmacy operations; engage in or operate retail, specialty or nuclear pharmacies; purchase pharmaceuticals; develop, manufacture or package pharmaceutical products and medical devices; market pharmaceutical and medical device products; and provide consulting services and solutions that assist healthcare institutions and pharmacies in their operations as well as pharmaceutical manufacturers with regard to regulatory submissions and filings made to healthcare agencies such as the FDA. In addition, certain of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to requirements of the Controlled Substances Act and the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987 and similar state laws, which regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution of prescription drugs and prescription drug samples under prescribed minimum standards. Certain of the Companys subsidiaries that manufacture medical devices are subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended by the Medical Device Amendments of 1976, the Safe Medical Device Act of 1990, as amended in 1992, the FDA Modernization Act of 1997, the Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act of 2002, and comparable foreign regulations. In addition, certain of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act. Laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of products also exist in most other countries where the Companys subsidiaries conduct business. In addition, the international manufacturing operations within the Companys Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing segments are subject to local certification requirements, including compliance with domestic and or foreign good manufacturing practices and quality system regulations established by the FDA and or applicable foreign regulatory authorities. The FDA in the United States, as well as other governmental agencies inside and outside of the United States, administer requirements covering the design, testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and 12 Table of Contents advertising, distribution and post market surveillance of certain of the Companys manufactured products. The Company must obtain specific approval or clearance from the FDA and non U.S. regulatory authorities before it can market and sell many of its products in a particular country. Even after the Company obtains regulatory approval or clearance to market a product, the product and the Companys manufacturing processes are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The Company is subject to possible administrative and legal actions by the FDA and other regulatory agencies for violations of laws and regulations including, without limitation, those laws and regulations described above. Such actions may include product recalls, product seizures, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution, and other civil and criminal sanctions. From time to time, the Company has instituted compliance actions, such as removing products from the market that were found not to meet applicable requirements. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the Alaris SE Pump recall. To assess and facilitate compliance with applicable requirements, the Company regularly reviews its quality systems to determine their effectiveness and identify areas for improvement. The Company also performs assessments of its suppliers of raw materials, components and finished goods. In addition, the Company conducts quality management reviews designed to inform management of key issues that may affect the quality of products and services. From time to time, the Company may determine that products manufactured or marketed by the Company do not meet company specifications, published standards, such as those issued by the International Standards Organization, or regulatory requirements. When a quality issue is identified to the Company, it will investigate and take appropriate corrective action, such as withdrawal of the product from the market, correction of the product at the customer location, notice to the customer of revised labeling, and or other actions. The Companys franchising operations, through Medicine Shoppe, are subject to Federal Trade Commission regulations, and rules and regulations adopted by certain states, which require franchisors to make certain disclosures to prospective franchisees prior to the sale of franchises. In addition, many states have adopted laws which regulate the franchisor franchisee relationship. The most common provisions of such laws establish restrictions on the ability of franchisors to terminate or refuse to renew franchise agreements. From time to time, similar legislation has been proposed or is pending in additional states. The Company operates nuclear pharmacies and related businesses, such as cyclotron facilities used to produce positron emission tomography (PET) products used in medical imaging. This business operates in a regulated industry which requires licenses or permits from the NRC, the radiologic health agency and or department of health of each state in which it operates and the applicable state board of pharmacy. In addition, the FDA is also involved in the regulation of cyclotron facilities where PET products are produced. Services and products provided by certain of the Companys businesses involve access to healthcare information gathered and assessed for the benefit of healthcare clients. Greater scrutiny on a federal and state level is being placed on how patient identifiable healthcare information should be handled and in identifying the appropriate parties and the means to do so. Changes in regulations and or legislation such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and its accompanying federal regulations, such as those pertaining to privacy and security, may affect how some of these information services or products are provided. In addition, certain of the Companys operations, depending upon their location, may be subject to additional state or foreign regulations affecting personal data protection and how information services or products are provided. Failure to comply with HIPAA and other such laws may subject the Company and or its subsidiaries to civil and or criminal penalties, which could be significant. The Company is also subject to various federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations, both in the United States and abroad, relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use, transportation and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, U.S. and international import and export laws and regulations require the Company to abide by certain standards relating to the importation and exportation of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. The Company is also subject to certain laws and regulations concerning the conduct of its foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of the Companys internal books and records. Certain of the Companys subsidiaries also maintain contracts with the federal government and are subject to certain regulatory requirements relating to government contractors. 13 Table of Contents The Companys operations are affected by federal, state and or local environmental laws. The Company has compliance programs in place designed to meet applicable environmental compliance requirements. The Company has made, and intends to continue to make, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable environmental laws. As a result of acquisitions, the Company is participating in cleaning up environmental contamination from past industrial activity at certain sites. There have been increasing efforts by various levels of government, including state departments of health, state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies, to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. Several states have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations, including pedigree tracking requirements, that are intended to protect the integrity of the pharmaceutical distribution system. Florida has adopted pedigree tracking requirements and California has enacted a law requiring chain of custody technology using electronic pedigrees. Regulations requiring pedigree and chain of custody tracking in certain circumstances adopted under the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act became effective on December 1, 2006. These federal regulations have been challenged in a legal proceeding brought by secondary distributors. A preliminary injunction was issued by the federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York that temporarily enjoined implementation of these federal regulations. These laws and regulations could increase the overall regulatory burden and costs associated with the Companys pharmaceutical supply chain business, and could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company continues to work with its suppliers in an ongoing effort to minimize counterfeit products in the supply chain. On December 26, 2006, the Company entered into a civil settlement to resolve a civil investigation by the New York Attorney Generals Office focusing on trading in the secondary market for pharmaceuticals. The Company has voluntarily undertaken and implemented a number of business reforms regarding certain matters examined as part of the investigation and also has implemented additional business reforms within its pharmaceutical supply chain business as required by the settlement. The Company has substantially enhanced its employee training programs and adopted policies and procedures designed to prevent the improper diversion of pharmaceutical products. It also now requires wholesale customers to certify their compliance with the Companys wholesaler safe product practices. In connection with the settlement, the Company agreed to conduct annual agreed upon procedures testing in 2007, 2008 and 2009 to assess its compliance with the procedures outlined in the settlement. The Company is subject to extensive local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government continues to scrutinize potentially fraudulent practices in the healthcare industry in an attempt to minimize the cost that such practices have on Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. In addition, state attorney general offices have investigated, and may in the future investigate, the Companys operations for compliance with such laws and regulations. For example, certain state attorney general offices are alleging that the Company has caused Medicaid reimbursements to be paid for repackaged pharmaceuticals without paying the required Medicaid rebate and that certain of the Companys repackaging business practices violate the Medicaid rebate statute. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the state attorneys general investigation related to repackaged pharmaceuticals. Many of these laws and regulations are complex and broadly written and could be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require the Company to make changes in its operations. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could suffer civil damages and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or its ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA) includes provisions that change the prescription drug reimbursement formula for generic pharmaceuticals under Medicaid to a reimbursement formula based on the lowest average manufacturers price in an effort to reduce costs for that program. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) released a final rule implementing these provisions on July 6, 2007. Under the final rule, the major changes with respect to generic pharmaceuticals are expected to become effective in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2008. The final rule also requires for the first time public reporting by the manufacturers of the average manufacturers price (as defined by CMS) for branded and generic pharmaceuticals. The Company is continuing to work with its customers and the regulatory agencies in this process. The Company is currently developing plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative changes. If the Company fails to successfully 14 Table of Contents develop and implement such plans, this change in reimbursement formula and related reporting requirements and other provisions of the DRA could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The costs associated with complying with the various applicable federal regulations, as well as state and foreign regulations, could be significant and the failure to comply with all such legal requirements could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Inventories The Companys distribution businesses are generally not required by its customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as may be required to meet service level requirements. Certain supply contracts with U.S. Government entities require the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical and Clinical Technologies and Services segments to maintain sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands. The Company does not believe that the requirements contained in these U.S. Government supply contracts materially impact inventory levels. The Companys customer return policies generally require that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees, and only allow customers to return products that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit. The Companys practice is to offer market payment terms to its customers. Research and Development For information on company sponsored research and development costs in the last three fiscal years, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference. Revenue and Long Lived Assets by Geographic Area For information on revenue and long lived assets by geographic area, see Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference. Item 1A: Risk Factors The risks described below could materially and adversely affect the Companys results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. These risks are not the only risks that the Company faces. The Companys business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to it or that the Company currently considers to be immaterial to its operations. Competitive pressures could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company operates in markets that are highly competitive. For example, the Companys pharmaceutical supply chain business competes with two national wholesale distributors, McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation, and a number of smaller regional wholesale distributors, self warehousing chains, direct selling manufacturers, specialty distributors and third party logistics companies. In addition, certain of the Companys customers have consolidated and may continue to do so in the future. Competitive pressures could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Substantial defaults or a material reduction in purchases of the Companys products by large customers could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. In recent years, a significant portion of the Companys revenue growth has been derived from a limited number of large customers. The Companys largest customers, CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 21% and 19%, respectively, of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2007. The aggregate of the Companys five largest customers, including CVS and Walgreens, accounted for approximately 50% of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2007. In addition, CVS and Walgreens accounted for 20% and 27%, respectively, of the Companys gross trade receivable balance at June 30, 2007. As a result, the Companys sales and credit concentration is significant. Any 15 Table of Contents defaults in payment or a material reduction in purchases from these or other large customers could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. In addition, certain of the Companys businesses have entered into agreements with GPOs. Approximately 10% of the Companys revenue for fiscal 2007 was derived from GPO members through the contractual arrangements established with Novation and Premier. Generally, compliance by GPO members with GPO vendor selections is voluntary. Still, the loss of an agreement with a GPO could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition because the Company could lose customers or have to reduce prices as a result. Changes in the United States healthcare environment could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The healthcare industry has changed significantly over time and the Company expects the industry to continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these changes, such as adverse changes in government funding of healthcare services, legislation or regulations governing the privacy of patient information, or the delivery or pricing of or reimbursement for pharmaceuticals and healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare industry participants to reduce the amount of the Companys products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for the Companys products and services. The Company expects continued government and private payor pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. Changes in the healthcare industrys or any suppliers pricing, reimbursement, selling, inventory, distribution or supply policies or practices, or changes in the Companys customer mix, could also significantly reduce the Companys revenue, increase the Companys costs or otherwise significantly impact its results of operations. Healthcare and public policy trends indicate that the number of generic pharmaceuticals will increase over the next few years as a result of the expiration of certain pharmaceutical patents. A decrease in the availability or changes in pricing of or reimbursements for generic pharmaceuticals could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. There have been increasing efforts by various levels of government, including state departments of health, state boards of pharmacy and comparable agencies, to regulate the pharmaceutical distribution system in order to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, adulterated or mislabeled pharmaceuticals into the distribution system. Several states have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations, including pedigree tracking requirements, that are intended to protect the integrity of the pharmaceutical distribution system. Florida has adopted pedigree tracking requirements and California has enacted a law requiring chain of custody technology using electronic pedigrees. Regulations requiring pedigree and chain of custody tracking in certain circumstances adopted under the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act became effective on December 1, 2006. These federal regulations have been challenged in a case brought by secondary distributors. A preliminary injunction was issued by the federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York that temporarily enjoined implementation of these federal regulations. These laws and regulations could increase the overall regulatory burden and costs associated with the Companys pharmaceutical supply chain business, and could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA) includes provisions that change the prescription drug reimbursement formula for generic pharmaceuticals under Medicaid to a reimbursement formula based on the lowest average manufacturers price in an effort to reduce costs for that program. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) released a final rule implementing these provisions on July 6, 2007. Under the final rule, the major changes with respect to generic pharmaceuticals are expected to become effective in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2008. The final rule also requires for the first time public reporting by the manufacturers of the average manufacturers price (as defined by CMS) for branded and generic pharmaceuticals. The Company is continuing to work with its customers and the regulatory agencies in this process. The Company is currently developing plans to mitigate the potential impact of these legislative changes. If the Company fails to successfully develop and implement such plans, this change in reimbursement formula and related reporting requirements and other provisions of the DRA could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents The Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment, at times, purchases medical/surgical and laboratory products from vendors other than the original manufacturer of such products. Certain manufacturers have adopted policies limiting the ability of the segments businesses to purchase products from anyone other than the manufacturer. If this practice becomes more widespread, the ability of the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment to purchase products from other distributors, as well as its ability to sell excess inventories to other distributors, may be impaired. This could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Companys pharmaceutical supply chain business is subject to appreciation in branded pharmaceutical prices and deflation in generic pharmaceutical prices, which subjects the Company to risks and uncertainties. Some distribution service agreements entered into by the Company with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers have a price appreciation based component to them in addition to a service fee component. The Company also continues to generate gross margin from the sale of some manufacturers products from pharmaceutical price appreciation without receiving distribution service agreement fees. If the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price appreciation slows, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, the pharmaceutical supply chain business distributes generic pharmaceuticals, which are generally subject to price deflation. If the frequency or rate of generic pharmaceutical price deflation accelerates, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company is subject to legal proceedings that could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company is involved in a number of legal proceedings, which, if decided adversely to the Company or settled by the Company on unfavorable terms, could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company discusses these legal proceedings in greater detail below in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the Companys products or services expose it to product and professional liability risks. The availability of product liability insurance for large companies in the pharmaceutical and medical device industry is generally more limited than insurance available to smaller companies and companies in other industries. Insurance carriers providing product liability insurance to large pharmaceutical and medical device companies generally limit the amount of available policy limits, require larger self insured retentions and include exclusions for certain products. There can be no assurance that a successful product or professional liability claim would be adequately covered by the Companys applicable insurance policies or by any applicable contractual indemnity and, as such, these claims could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The healthcare industry is highly regulated. The Company is subject to various local, state, federal, foreign and transnational laws and regulations, which include the operating and security standards of the DEA, the FDA, various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, the NRC, DHHS, the European Union member states and other comparable agencies. Certain of the Companys subsidiaries may be required to register for permits and or licenses with, and comply with operating and security standards of, the DEA, the FDA, the NRC, DHHS and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and or comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies and certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale. Although the Company believes that it is in compliance, in all material respects, with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that a regulatory agency or tribunal would not reach a different conclusion concerning the compliance of the Companys operations with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain or renew existing permits, licenses or any other regulatory approvals or obtain without significant delay future permits, licenses or other approvals needed for the operation of the Companys businesses. Any noncompliance by the Company with applicable laws and regulations or the failure to maintain, renew or obtain necessary permits and licenses could have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents The manufacture, distribution and marketing of certain of the Companys products are subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the FDA. Failure to comply with the requirements of the FDA could result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of the government to grant approvals, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the Alaris SE Pump recall. Any of these actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in the Company and its products which could adversely affect the Companys sales. In addition, third parties may file claims against the Company in connection these issues. The Company is also subject to extensive local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. The federal government continues to scrutinize potentially fraudulent practices in the healthcare industry in an attempt to minimize the cost that such practices have on Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. In addition, state attorney general offices have investigated, and may in the future investigate, the Companys operations for compliance with such laws and regulations. For example, certain state attorney general offices are alleging that the Company has caused Medicaid reimbursements to be paid for repackaged pharmaceuticals without paying the required Medicaid rebate and that certain of the Companys repackaging business practices violate the Medicaid rebate statute. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the state attorneys general investigation related to repackaged pharmaceuticals. Many of these laws and regulations are complex and broadly written and could be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require the Company to make changes in its operations. If the Company fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, it could suffer civil damages and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or its ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Circumstances associated with the Companys acquisition strategy could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. An important element of the Companys growth strategy historically has been the pursuit of acquisitions of other businesses which expand or complement the Companys existing businesses. Acquisitions involve risks, including the risk that the Company overpays for a business or is unable to obtain the synergies and other expected benefits from acquiring a business in a timely manner, or at all. Integrating acquired businesses also involves a number of special risks, including the following: the possibility that management may be distracted from regular business concerns by the need to integrate operations; unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems and realizing potential revenue synergies and cost savings; problems assimilating and retaining the management or employees of the acquired company or the Companys employees following an acquisition; accounting issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, the acquisition of the acquired company, including issues related to internal control over financial reporting; regulatory or compliance issues that could exist for an acquired company or business; challenges in retaining the customers of the combined businesses; and potential adverse short term effects on results of operations through increased costs or otherwise. If the Company is unable to successfully complete and integrate strategic acquisitions in a timely manner, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Consolidating the headquarters of the Healthcare Supply Chain Services sector could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. On April 30, 2007, the Company announced that it was moving the headquarters of its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment and certain corporate functions from Waukegan, Illinois to the Companys corporate headquarters in Dublin, Ohio. This consolidation is expected to take place over the next two years. The consolidation could result in customer service and other business disruptions in the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment and challenges in retaining this segments key employees. If the Company is unable to 18 Table of Contents successfully complete the Healthcare Supply Chain Services headquarters consolidation, its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Companys future results of operations are subject to fluctuations in the costs and availability of purchased components, compounds, raw materials and energy. The Company depends on various components, compounds, raw materials, and energy (including oil and natural gas and their derivatives) supplied by others for the manufacturing of its products through its Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing segments. It is possible that any of the Companys supplier relationships could be interrupted due to natural disasters or other events or could be terminated in the future. Any sustained interruption in the Companys receipt of adequate supplies could have an adverse effect on the Company. In addition, while the Company has processes to minimize volatility in component and material pricing, no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to successfully manage price fluctuations or that future price fluctuations or shortages will not have an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations. Proprietary technology protections may not be adequate. The Company relies on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect a number of its products, services and intangible assets. These proprietary rights are important to the Companys ongoing operations. There can be no assurance that these protections will provide meaningful protection against competitive products or services or otherwise be commercially valuable or that the Company will be successful in obtaining additional intellectual property or enforcing its intellectual property rights against unauthorized users. There can be no assurance that the Companys competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Companys technology. The products that the Company manufactures or distributes may be found to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, third parties have asserted infringement claims against the Company and there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against the Company in the future. While the Company believes that the products that it currently manufactures using its proprietary technology do not infringe upon proprietary rights of other parties or that meritorious defenses would exist with respect to any assertions to the contrary, there can be no assurance that the Company would not be found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others. The Company may be subject to litigation over infringement claims regarding the products it manufactures or distributes. This type of litigation can be costly and time consuming and could generate significant expenses, damage payments or restrictions or prohibitions on the Companys use of its technology, which could adversely affect the Companys results of operations. In addition, if the Company is found to be infringing on proprietary rights of others, the Company may be required to develop non infringing technology, obtain a license or cease making, using and or selling the infringing products. Generic drug manufacturers are increasingly challenging the validity or enforceability of patents on branded pharmaceutical products. During the pendency of these legal challenges, a generics manufacturer may begin manufacturing and selling a generic version of the branded product prior to the final resolution to its legal challenge over the branded products patent. The Company may distribute that generic product purchased from the generics manufacturer. As a result, the brand name company may assert infringement claims against the Company. While the Company generally obtains indemnity rights from generic manufacturers as a condition of distributing their products, there can be no assurances that these indemnity rights will be adequate or sufficient to protect the Company. Risks generally associated with the Companys information systems and implementation of a new accounting software system could adversely affect the Companys results of operations or the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. The Company relies on information systems in its business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to: facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; 19 Table of Contents receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; process payments to suppliers; and facilitate the manufacturing and assembly of medical products. The Companys results of operations could be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events or fail for any extended period of time, including due to the actions of third parties. In addition, in July 2007, the Company began implementing a new accounting software system and will transition selected financial processes to the new system throughout fiscal 2008 and 2009. If the Company does not effectively implement this system or if the system does not operate as intended, it could adversely affect the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting. Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to the Companys tax positions could adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company is a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and international jurisdictions. As such, the Company is subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments and of many international jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect the Companys tax positions. There can be no assurance that the Companys effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as international, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that the Companys tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that the Company would be successful in any such challenge. The Companys global operations are subject to a number of economic, political and regulatory risks. The Company conducts its operations in various regions of the world outside of the United States, including North America, South America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Global economic and regulatory developments affect businesses such as the Companys in many ways. Operations are subject to the effects of global competition. Particular local jurisdiction risks include regulatory risks arising from local laws. The Companys global operations are affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with the Companys supply chain and customers and all of its activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some of these other risks may be insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2: Properties In the United States, the Company has 25 pharmaceutical distribution facilities and three specialty distribution facilities utilized by its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. This segment also has 172 nuclear pharmacy laboratory, manufacturing and distribution facilities. In its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment, the Company has 50 medical surgical distribution and assembly facilities. In its Clinical Technologies and Services segment, the Company has three U.S. assembly operation facilities. In its Medical Products Manufacturing segment, the Company has 28 medical surgical manufacturing facilities. The Companys U.S. operating facilities are located in 45 states and in Puerto Rico. Outside of the United States, the Company owns or leases two operating facilities through its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment in the United Kingdom. The Company owns or leases four operating facilities through its Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment in Canada and Mexico. The Company owns or leases four manufacturing and distribution facilities through its Clinical Technologies and Services segment in Australia, Italy, Mexico and the United Kingdom. The Company owns or leases 18 operating facilities through its Medical Products Manufacturing segment in Australia, Canada, Dominican Republic, France, Germany, Ireland, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico and Thailand. 20 Table of Contents The Company owns 80 of its operating facilities, and the remaining 235 operating facilities are leased. The Companys principal executive offices are headquartered in a leased four story building located at 7000 Cardinal Place in Dublin, Ohio. The Company considers its operating properties to be in satisfactory condition and adequate to meet its present needs. However, the Company regularly evaluates its operating properties and may make further additions, improvements and consolidations as it continues to seek opportunities to expand its role as a provider of products and services to the healthcare industry. For certain financial information regarding the Companys facilities, see Notes 12 and 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 3: Legal Proceedings The legal proceedings described in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are incorporated in this Item 3 Legal Proceedings by reference. Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None during the quarter ended June 30, 2007. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following is a list of the executive officers of the Company (information provided as of August 23, 2007): Name Age Position R. Kerry Clark 55 President and Chief Executive Officer Robert D. Walter 62 Executive Chairman of the Board Mark W. Parrish 52 Chief Executive Officer Healthcare Supply Chain Services David L. Schlotterbeck 60 Chief Executive Officer Clinical and Medical Products Jeffrey W. Henderson 42 Chief Financial Officer Ivan K. Fong 46 Chief Legal Officer and Secretary Vivek Jain 35 Executive Vice President Strategy and Corporate Development Daniel J. Walsh 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Carole S. Watkins 47 Chief Human Resources Officer Unless otherwise indicated, the business experience summaries provided below for the Companys executive officers describe positions held by the named individuals during the last five years. Mr. Clark has served as the Companys President and Chief Executive Officer since April 2006. Prior to joining the Company, he was Vice Chairman of the Board PG Family Health of The Procter Gamble Company, a consumer products company, since 2004. Prior to that, he had served in numerous positions with Procter Gamble since joining the company in 1974. He also served as a director of Procter Gamble since 2002. Mr. Clark has served as a director of the Company since April 2006 and also is a director of Textron Inc., an aircraft, automotive and industrial products manufacturer and financial services company. Mr. Walter has served as Executive Chairman of the Board since April 2006. Prior to that, he served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since its formation in 1979, and with the Companys predecessor business since its formation in 1971. He is also a director of the American Express Company, a travel, financial and network services company. He is the father of Matthew D. Walter, a director of the Company. Mr. Parrish has served as Chief Executive Officer Healthcare Supply Chain Services since November 2006. Prior to that, he served as Group President Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Services since August 2006. He was President and Chief Operating Officer Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Services from September 2005 until 21 Table of Contents August 2006, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services from August 2004 until September 2005, Executive Vice President and Group President Pharmaceutical Distribution from January 2003 to August 2004 and President, Medicine Shoppe, a subsidiary of the Company, from July 2001 to January 2003. Mr. Schlotterbeck has served as Chief Executive Officer Clinical and Medical Products since August 2006. Prior to that, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Clinical Technologies and Services since August 2004. He was President of ALARIS Medical Systems, Inc. (Alaris), a subsidiary of the Company, from June 2004 when the Company acquired Alaris until August 2004. He was President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of Alaris from November 1999 to June 2004. Mr. Henderson has served as Chief Financial Officer since May 2005 after joining the Company as an Executive Vice President in April 2005. Prior to joining the Company, he was President and General Manager of Eli Lilly Canada, Inc., a subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company, a pharmaceutical company, from July 2003 to April 2005. He was Vice President and Corporate Controller of Eli Lilly from January 2000 to July 2003. Mr. Fong has served as Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since November 2005. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of GE Vendor Financial Services, a unit of General Electric Company, a diversified technology, media and financial services company, since January 2004. Prior to that, he served as General Electrics Chief Privacy Leader and Senior Counsel, Information Technology from August 2002 to December 2003. Mr. Jain has served as Executive Vice President Strategy and Corporate Development since August 2007. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Senior Vice President/Head of Healthcare Strategy, Business Development and MA for the Philips Medical Systems business of Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V., an electronics company, since May 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Jain was an investment banker at J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. (or its predecessor companies), an investment banking firm, from July 1994 to April 2006. Mr. Jains last position with J.P. Morgan was as Managing Director/Co Head of Global Healthcare Investment Banking from April 2002 to April 2006. Mr. Walsh has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer since May 2005. Prior to joining the Company, he was Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer of Scientific Atlanta Inc., a cable and telecommunications manufacturing company, from May 2003 to May 2005. Prior to that, he held various compliance roles, including Vice President, Audit and Compliance and Corporate Compliance Officer, with TI Group PLC/Smiths Group PLC (TI and Smiths merged January 2001), a medical, industrial and aerospace manufacturing company, from 1993 to May 2003. Ms. Watkins has served as Chief Human Resources Officer and its predecessor position, Executive Vice President Human Resources, since August 2000. 22 Table of Contents PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Companys Common Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CAH. The following table reflects the range of the reported high and low closing prices of the Common Shares as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape and the per share dividends declared for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, and through the period ended on August 23, 2007, the last full trading day prior to the date of the filing of this Form 10 K. High Low Dividends Fiscal 2006 Quarter Ended: September 30, 2005 $ 63.44 $ 57.28 $ 0.06 December 31, 2005 69.24 60.49 0.06 March 31, 2006 75.34 67.91 0.06 June 30, 2006 74.91 62.83 0.09 Fiscal 2007 Quarter Ended: September 30, 2006 $ 70.42 $ 62.80 $ 0.09 December 31, 2006 66.38 61.83 0.09 March 31, 2007 72.95 63.93 0.09 June 30, 2007 75.28 69.07 0.12 Fiscal 2008 Through August 23, 2007 $ 71.28 $ 65.40 $ 0.12 As of August 23, 2007 there were approximately 19,180 shareholders of record of the Common Shares. The Company anticipates that it will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future. However, the payment and amount of future dividends remain within the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors and will depend upon the Companys future earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Total Number of Approximate Dollar Total Average Shares Purchased as Value of Shares Number Price Part of That May Yet be of Shares Paid per Publicly Announced Purchased Under the Period Purchased(1) Share Program(2) Program(2)(3) April 1 30, 2007 4,788,522 $ 73.33 4,758,058 $ 2,036,161,155 May 1 31, 2007 9,271,056 71.09 9,264,843 1,377,486,325 June 1 30, 2007 8,851,813 71.09 8,849,128 748,438,336 Total 22,911,391 $ 71.56 22,872,029 $ 748,438,336 (1) Includes 110, 64, and 63 Common Shares purchased in April, May and June 2007, respectively, through a rabbi trust as investments of participants in the Companys Deferred Compensation Plan. Also includes 30,354; 6,149; and 2,622 restricted shares surrendered in April, May and June 2007, respectively, by employees upon vesting to meet tax withholding. (2) On July 11, 2006, the Company announced a $500 million share repurchase program and on August 3, 2006, the Company announced an additional $1.5 billion share repurchase program. On November 30, 2006, the Company announced an additional $1.0 billion share repurchase program. On January 31, 2007, the Company announced an additional $1.5 billion share repurchase program. After completing the repurchases with the net proceeds of the PTS Business divestiture in July 2007, the Company has approximately $400 million remaining 23 Table of Contents available for repurchases under this $4.5 billion share repurchase program. This program will expire on June 30, 2008. (3) On August 8, 2007, the Company announced a new $2.0 billion share repurchase program which expires on August 31, 2009. The following line graph compares the cumulative total return of the Companys Common Shares with the cumulative total return of the Standard Poors Composite 500 Stock Index and the Value Line Health Care Sector Index, an independently prepared index which includes more than 100 companies in the health care industry (the Value Line Health Care Index or Peer Group). The graph assumes, in each case, an initial investment of $100 on June 30, 2002 based on the market prices at the end of each fiscal year through and including June 30, 2007, with the Value Line Health Care Index investment weighted on the basis of market capitalization at the beginning of each such fiscal year, and assuming reinvestment of dividends (and taking into account all stock splits during such periods). June 30, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Cardinal Health, Inc. $ 100 $ 104.89 $ 114.48 $ 94.36 $ 105.85 $ 116.90 SP 500 100 98.45 115.26 120.36 128.33 151.88 Value Line Health Care Index (Peer Group) 100 106.66 116.12 123.99 126.79 145.10 24 Table of Contents Item 6: Selected Financial Data The consolidated financial data include all business combinations as of the date of acquisition that occurred during these periods. The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and related notes and Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA At or for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30,(1) 2007 2006(2) 2005 2004 2003 (In millions, except per common share amounts) Earnings Data: Revenue $ 86,852.0 $ 79,664.2 $ 72,666.0 $ 63,043.1 $ 55,077.3 Earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting $ 839.7 $ 1,163.3 $ 1,067.1 $ 1,354.8 $ 1,192.5 Earnings/(loss) from discontinued operations(3) 1,091.4 (163.2 ) (16.4 ) 158.2 182.6 Cumulative effect of change in accounting(4) (38.5 ) Net earnings $ 1,931.1 $ 1,000.1 $ 1,050.7 $ 1,474.5 $ 1,375.1 Basic earnings/(loss) per Common Share Continuing operations $ 2.13 $ 2.76 $ 2.48 $ 3.12 $ 2.67 Discontinued operations(3) 2.76 (0.38 ) (0.04 ) 0.36 0.41 Cumulative effect of change in accounting(4) (0.09 ) Net basic earnings per Common Share $ 4.89 $ 2.38 $ 2.44 $ 3.39 $ 3.08 Diluted earnings/(loss) per Common Share Continuing operations $ 2.07 $ 2.71 $ 2.45 $ 3.08 $ 2.63 Discontinued operations(3) 2.70 (0.38 ) (0.04 ) 0.36 0.40 Cumulative effect of change in accounting(4) (0.09 ) Net diluted earnings per Common Share $ 4.77 $ 2.33 $ 2.41 $ 3.35 $ 3.03 Cash dividends declared per Common Share(5) $ 0.390 $ 0.270 $ 0.150 $ 0.120 $ 0.105 Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 23,153.8 $ 23,433.3 $ 21,886.6 $ 21,063.0 $ 18,177.0 Long term obligations, less current portion and other short term borrowings 3,457.3 2,588.6 2,302.1 2,818.7 2,444.3 Shareholders equity 7,376.9 8,490.7 8,593.0 7,976.3 7,674.5 (1) Amounts reflect business combinations and the impact of special items in all periods presented. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of special items affecting fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. Fiscal 2004 amounts reflect the impact of special items of $38.8 million ($23.9 million, net of tax). Fiscal 2003 amounts reflect the impact of special items of $88.5 million ($60.9 million, net of tax). (2) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, applying the modified prospective method. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for equity based awards under the intrinsic value 25 Table of Contents method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations, and equity based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure within the notes to the financial statements. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3) During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company committed to plans to sell the PTS Business thereby meeting the criteria for classification of discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets and Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03 13, Applying the Conditions in Paragraph 42 of FASB Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in Determining Whether to Report Discontinued Operations. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company committed to plans to sell a significant portion of its healthcare marketing services business and its United Kingdom based Intercare pharmaceutical distribution business, thereby meeting the held for sale criteria set forth in SFAS No. 144. During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company decided to discontinue its sterile pharmaceutical manufacturing business in Humacao, Puerto Rico, thereby meeting the criteria for classification of discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144 and EITF Issue No. 03 13. In addition, on January 1, 2003, the Company acquired Syncor. Prior to the acquisition, Syncor had announced the discontinuation of certain operations including the medical imaging business and certain overseas operations. The Company proceeded with the discontinuation of these operations and included additional international and non core domestic businesses in the discontinued operations. The Company sold substantially all of the Syncor related discontinued operations prior to the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2005. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) Effective at the beginning of fiscal 2004, the Company changed its method of recognizing cash discounts from recognizing cash discounts as a reduction of costs of products sold primarily upon payment of vendor invoices to recording cash discounts as a component of inventory cost and recognizing such discounts as a reduction of cost of products sold upon sale of inventory. (5) Cash dividends per Common Share exclude dividends paid by all entities with which subsidiaries of the Company have merged. Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis presented below refers to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10 K. Unless otherwise indicated, throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, discussion of matters in the Companys consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations. The Companys discussion of results of operations is presented in four parts: Company Overview, Consolidated Results of Operations, Segment Results of Operations and Other Matters. Company Overview Strategic Overview Cardinal Health is a leading provider of products and services that improve the safety and productivity of healthcare. The Company is one of the largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies focusing on making supply chains more efficient. The Company distributes approximately one third of all pharmaceuticals prescribed in the United States and also distributes or manufactures products that are used in approximately 50% of all surgeries in the United States. The Company develops market leading technologies, including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing systems, MedMinedtm electronic infection surveillance, Viasys respiratory care products and the Care Fusiontm patient identification system. The Companys Pyxis and Alaris systems distribute approximately 8.5 million doses of medication every day. Customers include hospitals and clinics, some of the largest drug store chains in the United States and many other healthcare providers and retail outlets. The Company believes that its depth and breadth of products is unique in the industry and gives it a competitive advantage. 26 Table of Contents Cardinal Healths mission is to make the practice and delivery of healthcare safer and more productive for healthcare providers. Over the last fiscal year the Company made three major changes to better pursue its mission: the Company reorganized its businesses and reportable segments; the Company divested the PTS Business to focus on the healthcare provider in both the retail and hospital settings; and the Company made strategic acquisitions that broaden and enhance product offerings. First, the Company reorganized its reportable segments effective the first quarter of fiscal 2007 and began reporting its financial information within the following five reportable segments: Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical; Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical; Clinical Technologies and Services; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services; and Medical Products Manufacturing. This change in segment reporting resulted from a realignment of the individual businesses to better correlate the operations of the Company with the needs of its customers. This change had no effect on the Companys reported net earnings or net earnings per Common Share. Second, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company completed the sale of the PTS Business for approximately $3.2 billion in cash. The Company used the after tax net proceeds of approximately $3.1 billion to repurchase its Common Shares. The Company recognized an after tax book gain of approximately $1.1 billion from this transaction. The assets and liabilities of the PTS Business were classified as held for sale in prior periods and its operating results were classified within discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 8 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Companys discontinued operations. The Companys remaining four segments after the sale of the PTS business align within two sectors: the Healthcare Supply Chain Services sector, which includes the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segments, and the Clinical and Medical Products sector, which includes the Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing segments. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services sector focuses on delivering best in class distribution and logistics services to its customers. The sector generates 95% of total segment revenue, approximately three quarters of total segment profit (as defined below in the Segment Results of Operations section) and consistent and reliable cash flow. The Clinical and Medical Products sector focuses largely on developing innovative products for hospitals and other providers of care. The sector, with its higher margin products and services and faster growing segment profit has grown to contribute approximately one fourth of total segment profit. Third, during fiscal 2007, the Company acquired Viasys, MedMined and Care Fusion along with other acquisitions. Viasys is a leader in respiratory care through the development and marketing of systems for critical care and diagnostic use and offers products and services directed at critical care ventilation, respiratory diagnostics and clinical services, neurological, vascular, audio, homecare, orthopedics, sleep diagnostics and other medical and surgical products markets. The value of the transaction, including the assumption of Viasyss debt, totaled approximately $1.5 billion. Viasys is being integrated into the Medical Products Manufacturing segment. The Company also acquired MedMined, a leader in tracking and predicting infection management opportunities within major hospitals and Care Fusion, which focuses on bedside bar code utilization for tracking hospital samples. Both businesses are being integrated into the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. For further information regarding the Companys acquisitions see Item 1 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures, Other Matters Acquisitions below and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For further information regarding the Companys business, see Item 1 Business within this Form 10 K. Financial Overview Continued demand for the Companys products and services in fiscal 2007 led to revenue of $86.9 billion, up 9% from fiscal 2006. Operating earnings, which were negatively impacted by special items ($772 million), decreased 26% to approximately $1.4 billion. The significant increase in special items related to reserves for litigation settlements ($655 million) and in process research and development (IPRD) expenses primarily in connection with the Viasys acquisition ($85 million). The year over year operating earnings comparison was 27 Table of Contents favorably impacted by increased gross margin ($431 million) partially offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses ($200 million). Net earnings, which included the gain from the sale of the PTS Business ($1.1 billion), were $1.9 billion and net diluted earnings per Common Share were $4.77. Fiscal 2007 cash from operating activities decreased $898 million to $1.2 billion primarily due to the payment of litigation settlement reserves and government fines ($690 million) as discussed in the Special Items section below. Cash provided by investing activities was $1.5 billion due primarily to net proceeds from the PTS Business divesture ($3.1 billion) offset by cash paid for acquisitions ($1.6 billion). Cash used in financing activities was $2.6 billion due to the Companys cash payments for treasury shares ($3.7 billion) offset by net proceeds from borrowings ($631 million) and issuance of shares ($553 million). During fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased approximately $3.8 billion of its Common Shares under a $4.5 billion repurchase authorization of which $3.7 billion was settled prior to year end. On August 8, 2007, the Company announced a new $2.0 billion share repurchase program which expires on August 31, 2009. See the table under Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for more information regarding the share repurchases. Also during fiscal 2007, the Company paid $144 million in dividends or $0.36 per share. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Board of Directors raised the quarterly dividend by 33% to $0.12 per share. The share repurchase activity (apart from the use of net proceeds from the PTS Business divestiture) and increased dividend payments support the Companys previously stated long term goal to return 50% of net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations to shareholders and to increase its dividend payout to 20% of earnings per share. Consolidated Results of Operations The following table summarizes the Companys consolidated results of operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions, except per Common Share amounts): Change(1) Consolidated Results of Operations 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 Revenue 9 % 10 % $ 86,852.0 $ 79,664.2 $ 72,666.0 Cost of products sold(2) 9 % 10 % 81,606.7 74,850.2 68,206.3 Gross margin 9 % 8 % $ 5,245.3 $ 4,814.0 $ 4,459.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses(2) (3) 7 % 15 % 3,082.3 2,882.8 2,497.7 Impairment charges and other N.M. N.M. 17.3 5.8 38.3 Special items N.M. N.M. 772.0 80.5 141.5 Operating earnings (26 )% 4 % $ 1,373.7 $ 1,844.9 $ 1,782.2 Interest expense and other 16 % (11 )% 121.4 104.5 117.8 Earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations (28 )% 5 % $ 1,252.3 $ 1,740.4 $ 1,664.4 Provision for income taxes (29 )% (3 )% 412.6 577.1 597.3 Earnings from continuing operations (28 )% 9 % $ 839.7 $ 1,163.3 $ 1,067.1 Earnings / (loss) from discontinued operations N.M. N.M. 1,091.4 (163.2 ) (16.4 ) Net earnings 93 % (5 )% $ 1,931.1 $ 1,000.1 $ 1,050.7 Net diluted earnings per Common Share 105 % (3 )% $ 4.77 $ 2.33 $ 2.41 (1) Change is calculated as the percentage increase or (decrease) for a given year as compared to the immediately preceding year. (2) During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company changed the classification of certain immaterial implementation costs associated with the sale of medication and supply storage devices in the Clinical Technologies and Services segment from selling, general and administrative expenses to cost of products sold. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the new presentation. 28 Table of Contents (3) Equity based compensation expense was $138 million, $208 million and $9 million, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Revenue Revenue increased $7.2 billion or 9% during fiscal 2007 due to growth in each of the Companys four reportable segments, including revenue growth of $6.5 billion within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, due primarily to growth in revenue from bulk customers ($4.0 billion). The increase in revenue from bulk customers was due to certain existing customers deciding to purchase a greater volume of product from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer and to pharmaceutical price appreciation. The Company uses the internal metric pharmaceutical price appreciation index to evaluate the impact of pharmaceutical and consumer product price appreciation on revenue from the pharmaceutical supply chain business. This metric is calculated using the change in the manufacturers published price at the beginning of the period as compared to the end of the period weighted by the units sold by the pharmaceutical supply chain business during the period. The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 6.3% during fiscal 2007. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment represents approximately 86% of total segment revenue. Refer to Segment Results of Operations below for further discussion of the specific factors affecting revenue in each of the Companys reportable segments. Revenue increased $7.0 billion or 10% during fiscal 2006 due to increased revenue within each of the Companys four reportable segments, including revenue growth of $6.4 billion within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, due primarily to growth in revenue from bulk customers ($5.8 billion). The increase in revenue from bulk customers was due to overall market growth and certain existing customers deciding to purchase a greater volume of product from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer. The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 5.6% during fiscal 2006. Cost of Products Sold Cost of products sold increased $6.8 billion or 9% and $6.6 billion or 10%, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006. The increases in cost of products sold were mainly due to the respective 9% and 10% growth in revenue for fiscal 2007 and 2006. See the Gross Margin discussion below for further discussion of additional factors impacting cost of products sold. Gross Margin Gross margin increased $431 million or 9% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 over the prior fiscal year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to revenue growth of $7.2 billion. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included increased sales of clinical and medical products and related services ($204 million), increased manufacturer cash discounts ($193 million), generic pharmaceutical margin ($192 million) and distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $171 million). Gross margin was negatively impacted by the increase in customer discounts within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segments ($324 million) due to increased sales and competitive pricing pressures. Refer to the Segment Results of Operations below for further discussion of the specific factors affecting gross margin in each of the Companys reportable segments. Due to the competitive markets in which the Companys businesses operate, the Company expects competitive pricing pressures to continue; however, the Company expects the margin impact of these pricing pressures will be mitigated through sales growth of higher margin manufactured products, effective product sourcing, realization of synergies through integration of acquired businesses and continued focus on cost controls. Gross margin increased $354 million or 8% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to revenue growth of $7.0 billion. Gross margin was favorably impacted by increased gross margin in clinical and manufactured products and related services ($211 million) and manufacturer cash discounts ($139 million) and distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $134 million) from the pharmaceutical supply chain business within the Healthcare Supply Chain 29 Table of Contents Services Pharmaceutical segment. Gross margin was negatively impacted by increased customer discounts ($232 million) in the pharmaceutical supply chain business. Selling, General and Administrative (SGA) Expenses SGA expenses increased $200 million or 7% during fiscal 2007 primarily in support of revenue growth. Additional items impacting SGA expenses included increases due to acquisitions ($72 million) and the Companys charitable contribution to the Cardinal Health Foundation ($30 million). SGA expenses were favorably impacted by the year over year reduction in equity based compensation expense ($70 million). The reduction in equity based compensation expense was due in part to changes made to the Companys equity compensation program and the grant of stock appreciation rights in the prior year. Refer to Segment Results of Operations below for further discussion of the specific factors affecting SGA expenses in each of the Companys reportable segments. The Company expects SGA expenses to grow in fiscal 2008 in support of sales growth and new product and service offerings and as a result of the impact of acquisitions and continued investment in research and development projects and international expansion; however, the Company does expect to generate expense efficiencies through the integration of acquired companies and other cost controls. SGA expenses increased $385 million or 15% during fiscal 2006 primarily in support of the $7.0 billion revenue growth and as a result of increased equity based compensation expense ($199 million), primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). See Other Matters Adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) below and Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. Additional items impacting SGA expenses included increased incentive compensation expense ($36 million) due to improved operating performance, incremental expenses associated with the Companys global restructuring program ($38 million) and increased legal expenses ($15 million) due to then outstanding litigation. Impairment Charges and Other The Company recognized impairment charges and other of $17 million, $6 million and $38 million, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding impairment charges and other. Special Items The following is a summary of the Companys special items for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Restructuring charges $ 40.1 $ 47.6 $ 80.3 Acquisition integration charges 101.5 25.4 48.3 Litigation and other 630.4 7.5 12.9 Total special items $ 772.0 $ 80.5 $ 141.5 Fiscal 2007 special items charges primarily related to reserves for litigation settlements ($655 million) and IPRD expenses ($85 million) primarily in connection with the Viasys acquisition. The Company recorded litigation charges and made payment of $655 million during fiscal 2007 related to the settlement of the Cardinal Health federal securities litigation ($600 million), Cardinal Health ERISA litigation ($40 million) and other matters. These charges were offset by $29 million of income related to pharmaceutical manufacturer antitrust litigation. In addition, the Company settled and made payment for the penalty associated with the SEC investigation ($35 million), which was reserved in fiscal 2006 and 2005. These settlements resolve some of the Companys most significant outstanding litigation as well as the SEC investigation. In fiscal 2008, the Company expects to recognize approximately $58 million in proceeds as income from insurance policies upon final settlement of all claims in shareholder derivative actions. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these matters and other outstanding legal proceedings and regulatory matters. 30 Table of Contents During fiscal 2007, the Company recorded $85 million of IPRD charges primarily associated with the Viasys acquisition. The IPRD charges were determined by an independent third party appraisal and represent the estimated fair value of the research and development projects in process at the time of the acquisition. These projects had not yet reached technological feasibility, were deemed to have no alternative use and, accordingly, were immediately charged to operating expense at the acquisition date. Fiscal 2006 and 2005 special items charges primarily related to the Companys restructuring programs, the SEC investigation and Audit Committee internal review, the integration costs of certain acquisitions and settlements received from vitamin antitrust litigation. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details of the Companys special items. Operating Earnings Operating earnings decreased $471 million or 26% during fiscal 2007, which includes increased special items charges ($692 million) and impairment and other charges ($12 million). Operating earnings were favorably impacted by gross margin growth ($431 million) and negatively impacted by increased SGA expenses ($200 million). Operating earnings increased $63 million or 4% during fiscal 2006. Operating earnings were favorably impacted by gross margin growth ($354 million) and the year over year decrease in special items charges ($61 million) and impairment charges and other ($33 million). Fiscal 2006 operating earnings were negatively impacted by increased SGA expenses ($385 million). Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other increased $17 million or 16% during fiscal 2007 primarily due to increased borrowing levels and interest rates. Interest expense and other decreased $13 million during fiscal 2006 primarily due to an increase in investment income ($7 million) and foreign exchange gains ($4 million). Provision for Income Taxes The provisions for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations were 32.9%, 33.2% and 35.9% of pretax earnings in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Generally, fluctuations in the effective tax rate are due to changes within international and U.S. state effective tax rates resulting from the Companys business mix and changes in the tax impact of special items, which may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item and the taxing jurisdiction. The Companys effective tax rate reflects tax benefits derived from increasing operations outside the United States, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. The Company has tax incentive agreements in several non U.S. tax jurisdictions which will expire in fiscal years 2009 through 2024 if not renewed. The Company does not believe that potential changes from existing tax incentive agreements will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. The Companys fiscal 2007 provision for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations was $412.6 million and the effective tax rate was 32.9%. The fiscal 2007 effective tax rate benefited by 0.2 percentage points from equity based compensation expense, which is deductible at a tax rate higher than the average tax rate. The fiscal 2007 effective tax rate was adversely impacted by 0.75 percentage points due to the non deductibility of certain special items and impairments, principally the IPRD charge related to the Viasys acquisition. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal or non U.S. income tax audits by tax authorities for fiscal years ending before June 30, 2001. The years subsequent to fiscal 2000 contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations as it relates to the amount and or timing of income, deductions and tax credits. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) currently has ongoing examinations of open years from 2001 through 2005. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the Company believes that adequate amounts of tax and interest have been provided for any adjustments that are expected to result for these years. While it is not currently possible to predict the impact of settlements or other IRS 31 Table of Contents audit activity on income tax expense or cash flows during the next 12 months, the Company does not expect any significant impact on financial position. During the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the effective tax rate from continuing operations was favorably impacted by a $9.9 million adjustment to the tax reserves primarily due to the issuance of a final IRS Revenue Agent Report that related to fiscal years 2001 and 2002. During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the effective tax rate from continuing operations was negatively impacted by a $7.3 million adjustment to the tax reserves related to an ongoing international tax audit. During the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company entered into an agreement with the IRS to close the fiscal years 1996 through 2000 federal audits. As a result, the Company reversed tax reserves of approximately $8.9 million. The Companys fiscal 2006 provision for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations was $577.1 million and the effective tax rate was 33.2%. The fiscal 2006 effective tax rate was adversely impacted by 0.2 percentage points due to the non deductibility of certain special items. A provision of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA) created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed income earned abroad by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from non U.S. subsidiaries. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company determined that it would repatriate $500 million of accumulated non U.S. earnings in fiscal 2006 pursuant to the repatriation provisions of the AJCA, and accordingly, the Company recorded a related tax liability of $26.3 million as of June 30, 2005. The $500 million is the maximum repatriation available to the Company under the repatriation provisions of the AJCA. During fiscal 2006, the Company repatriated $494 million of qualifying accumulated foreign earnings in accordance with its plan adopted during fiscal 2005. An additional tax liability of $0.4 million was recorded during fiscal 2006 due to new state legislation with respect to the AJCA, bringing the Companys total tax liability related to the repatriation recorded through June 30, 2006 to $26.7 million. Uses of repatriated funds included domestic expenditures related to non executive salaries, capital asset investments and other permitted activities. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Discontinued Operations Earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax increased by $1.3 billion during fiscal 2007 primarily due to the after tax gain on the sale of the PTS Business ($1.1 billion) and impairment charges from prior year ($185 million). See Note 8 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Companys discontinued operations. Segment Results of Operations Reportable Segments The Companys operations are organized into four reportable segments: Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical; Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical; Clinical Technologies and Services; and Medical Products Manufacturing. The Company evaluates the performance of the individual segments based upon, among other things, segment profit. Segment profit is segment revenue less segment cost of products sold, less segment SGA expenses. Segment SGA expense includes equity compensation expense as well as allocated corporate expenses for shared functions, including corporate management, corporate finance, financial shared services, human resources, information technology, legal and legislative affairs and the integrated sales organization. Corporate expenses are allocated to the segments based upon headcount, level of benefit provided and ratable allocation. Information about interest income and expense and income taxes is not provided at the segment level. In addition, special items, impairment charges and other and investment spending are not allocated to the segments. See Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Companys reportable segments. Revenue increased in each of the Companys four reportable segments during fiscal 2007, including double digit growth in the Medical Products Manufacturing (12%) and Clinical Technologies and Services (11%) segments. Segment profit increased in each of the Companys four reportable segments, including double digit 32 Table of Contents growth in the Medical Products Manufacturing (20%), Clinical Technologies and Services (20%) and Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical (14%) segments. The following table summarizes segment revenue for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): Growth(1) Segment Revenue 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical: Revenue from non bulk customers(2) 6 % 2 % $ 42,672.8 $ 40,174.9 $ 39,570.5 Revenue from bulk customers(2) 13 % 24 % 33,900.0 29,872.0 24,084.4 Total Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical 9 % 10 % $ 76,572.8 $ 70,046.9 $ 63,654.9 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical 4 % 6 % 7,513.9 7,198.6 6,823.0 Clinical Technologies and Services 11 % 11 % 2,687.0 2,430.3 2,189.3 Medical Products Manufacturing 12 % 6 % 1,835.9 1,632.9 1,537.0 Total segment revenue 9 % 10 % $ 88,609.6 $ 81,308.7 $ 74,204.2 Corporate(3) N.M. N.M. (1,757.6 ) (1,644.5 ) (1,538.2 ) Consolidated revenue 9 % 10 % $ 86,852.0 $ 79,664.2 $ 72,666.0 (1) Growth is calculated as the percentage change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to the immediately preceding year. (2) Bulk customers consist of customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. Non bulk customers include retail stores, hospitals, alternate care sites and other customers not specifically classified as bulk customers. Most deliveries to bulk customers consist of product shipped in the same form as received from the manufacturer. See discussion below within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical section for the Companys description of revenue from bulk customers. (3) Corporate revenue consists of the elimination of inter segment revenue for all periods presented. The following table summarizes segment profit for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): Growth(1) Segment Profit(2)(3) 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical(4) 14 % (7 )% $ 1,299.8 $ 1,142.6 $ 1,223.6 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical(5) 1 % (14 )% 318.1 314.5 367.5 Clinical Technologies and Services 20 % 35 % 385.7 320.3 238.1 Medical Products Manufacturing(4) 20 % (6 )% 197.6 164.5 175.7 Total segment profit 13 % (3 )% $ 2,201.2 $ 1,941.9 $ 2,004.9 Corporate(6) N.M. N.M. (827.5 ) (97.0 ) (222.7 ) Consolidated operating earnings (26 )% 4 % $ 1,373.7 $ 1,844.9 $ 1,782.2 (1) Growth is calculated as the percentage change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to the immediately preceding year. (2) A portion of the corporate costs previously allocated to the former Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment have been reclassified to the remaining four segments based upon each segments respective 33 Table of Contents proportion of allocated corporate expenses. In addition, equity based compensation has been allocated to the segments based upon the forecasted equity based compensation expense for the respective segment plus one fourth of the forecasted corporate equity based compensation expense. Prior period information has been adjusted to reflect these changes in methodology. (3) Equity based compensation expense was $138 million, $208 million and $9 million, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. (4) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment recorded a charge reflecting credits owed to certain vendors ($32 million) for prior periods. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, an adjustment ($4 million) was recorded to reduce a portion of the reserve based upon a revised estimate. (5) During the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company revised the method used to allocate certain shared costs between the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment and the Medical Products Manufacturing segment to better align costs with the segment that receives the related benefits. Prior period information has been adjusted to reflect this change in methodology. (6) For fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, corporate operating earnings include special items, impairment charges and other and certain other Corporate investment spending described below: Special items Corporate operating earnings include special items of $772 million, $81 million and $142 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively (see Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of special items). Impairment charges and other See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of impairment charges and other. Investment spending The Company has encouraged its business units to identify investment projects which will provide future returns. These projects typically require incremental strategic investments in the form of additional capital or operating expenses. As approval decisions for such projects are dependent upon Corporate management, the expenses for such projects are retained at the Corporate segment. Investment spending for fiscal years, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $22 million, $19 million and $18 million, respectively. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical Performance During fiscal 2007, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment revenue increased $6.5 billion or 9% primarily from revenue from bulk customers. Segment profit increased $157 million due to revenue growth, increased generic pharmaceutical margin and increased distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation, offset by increased customer discounts and increased SGA expenses. The pharmaceutical distribution market remains highly competitive and the Company expects that customer discounts will continue to increase. However, the Company expects that increased manufacturer cash discounts and distribution service agreement fees, both of which increase with revenue growth, combined with increased generic margin and continued pharmaceutical price appreciation will enable the Company to offset increased customer discounts. The Companys results could be adversely affected if sales of pharmaceutical products decline, the frequency of new generic pharmaceutical launches decreases or pharmaceutical price appreciation decreases from its historical rate. Alternatively, the Companys results could benefit if sales of pharmaceutical products increase, the frequency of new generic pharmaceutical launches increases or pharmaceutical price appreciation exceeds its historical rate. Revenue from bulk customers, described below, increased $4.0 billion during fiscal 2007 with additional volume from existing customers ($2.7 billion) and new customers ($1.3 billion). Revenue from non bulk customers increased $2.5 billion. Growth in revenue from non bulk customers was driven by additional sales volume from existing customers and pharmaceutical price appreciation ($4.0 billion). The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 6.3% for fiscal 2007. Acquisitions ($1.2 billion), mainly Dohmen and ParMed, also had a favorable impact on the year over year revenue comparison. Negatively impacting growth in revenue from non bulk customers was the loss of existing customers due to competition ($1.0 billion) and the sale of a significant part of the specialty distribution business ($1.7 billion) in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. 34 Table of Contents Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment profit increased $157 million or 14% in fiscal 2007. Gross margin increased segment profit by $202 million primarily due to the segments revenue growth and increased generic pharmaceutical margin ($192 million) due to new product launches and competitive vendor pricing. Gross margin also was favorably impacted by increased manufacturer cash discounts due to sales volume growth ($187 million) and distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $171 million). Gross margin was negatively impacted by increased customer discounts ($319 million) due to increased sales volume and competitive pressures. The Company expects continued customer discounting due to the competitive market in which it operates. Increases in segment SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by approximately $45 million for fiscal 2007. Increases in SGA expenses were in support of the increased sales volume and due to the impact of acquisitions ($37 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($14 million). Segment profit was negatively impacted by the prior year sale of a significant portion of the specialty distribution business ($43 million). The Company estimates that branded pharmaceuticals with industry wide sales volume domestically of $21.8 billion and $4.4 billion came off of patent protection during fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively, which allowed for generic pharmaceutical competition. The Companys estimate of industry wide branded pharmaceutical sales volume is internally developed using industry sales data for significant branded pharmaceuticals adapted for the Companys fiscal period. Generic pharmaceuticals negatively impact revenue because they are offered at lower prices than branded pharmaceuticals; however, generic pharmaceuticals positively impact gross margin and operating earnings due to competitive vendor pricing. The Company generally earns the highest margins on generic pharmaceuticals during the period immediately following the initial launch of a generic product to the marketplace because generic pharmaceutical selling prices are generally deflationary. The Company expects a similar level of branded pharmaceuticals will come off of patent protection during fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007. During fiscal 2006, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment revenue increased $6.4 billion or 10%. Revenue from bulk customers increased $5.8 billion. Centralized warehouse and mail order customers contributed $5.0 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, of the bulk customer revenue growth. The additional sales volume was due in significant part to certain existing warehouse customers deciding to purchase from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer. Revenue from non bulk customers increased $604 million based upon pharmaceutical price appreciation and additional sales volume from new and existing customers. Revenue growth was negatively impacted as a result of the decision of the specialty distribution businesss largest customer to begin self distribution on January 1, 2006 and the sale of a significant portion of the specialty distribution business in the fourth quarter ($190 million). The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 5.6% for fiscal 2006. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment profit decreased $81 million or 7% in fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $70 million due primarily to the segments revenue growth and increased manufacturer cash discounts ($139 million) due to increased sales within the pharmaceutical supply chain business. In addition, gross margin was favorably impacted by distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $134 million). Other factors favorably impacting gross margin included generic pharmaceuticals ($32 million) due to sales growth, competitive vendor pricing, the introduction of new generic pharmaceuticals within the pharmaceutical supply chain business, the addition of new vendors to the segments National Logistics Center ($27 million) and a last in, first out (LIFO) reserve reduction ($26 million) primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories. Increased customer discounts within the pharmaceutical supply chain business negatively impacted segment profit by $232 million due to increased sales volume and competitive pressures. Segment profit was also negatively impacted by an adjustment ($32 million), as described in detail below. Increases in segment SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by approximately $151 million for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005. Increases in these expenses were in support of the increased sales volume and increased equity based compensation expense ($67 million) due primarily to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). As noted above, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment profit was negatively impacted by an adjustment recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The Company discovered it had inadvertently and 35 Table of Contents erroneously failed to process credits owed to a vendor in prior years. After a thorough review, the Company determined it had failed to process similar credits for a limited number of additional vendors. These processing failures, specific to a limited area of vendor credits, resulted from system programming, interface and data entry errors relating to these vendor credits which occurred over a period of years. As a result, the Company recorded a charge ($32 million) in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting its estimate of the credits owed to these vendors. Bulk and Non Bulk Customers. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment differentiates between bulk and non bulk customers because bulk customers generate significantly lower segment profit as a percentage of revenue than non bulk customers. Bulk customers consist of customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. All other customers are classified as non bulk customers (for example, retail stores, pharmacies, hospitals and alternate care sites). Bulk customers include the warehouse operations of retail chains whose retail stores are classified as non bulk customers. For example, a single retail chain pharmacy customer may be both a bulk customer with respect to its warehouse operations and a non bulk customer with respect to its retail stores. Bulk customers have the ability to process large quantities of products in central locations and self distribute these products to their individual retail stores or customers. Substantially all deliveries to bulk customers consist of product shipped in the same form as the product is received from the manufacturer, but a small portion of deliveries to bulk customers are broken down into smaller units prior to shipping. Non bulk customers, on the other hand, require more complex servicing by the Company. These services, all of which are performed by the Company, include receiving inventory in large or full case quantities and breaking it down into smaller quantities, warehousing the product for a longer period of time, picking individual products specific to a customers order and delivering that smaller order to a customer location. The Company tracks revenue by bulk and non bulk customers in its financial systems. To assist the Company in managing its business, an internal analysis has been prepared to allocate segment expenses (total of segment cost of products sold and segment selling, general and administrative expenses) separately for bulk and non bulk customers. The following table shows the allocation of segment expenses, segment profit and segment profit as a percentage of revenue for bulk and non bulk customers for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Non bulk customers: Revenue from non bulk customers $ 42,673 $ 40,175 $ 39,571 Segment expenses allocated to non bulk customers(1)(2) 41,565 39,215 38,475 Segment profit from non bulk customers(1)(2) 1,108 960 1,096 Segment profit from non bulk customers as a percentage of revenue from non bulk customers(1)(2) 2.6 % 2.4 % 2.8 % Bulk customers: Revenue from bulk customers $ 33,900 $ 29,872 $ 24,084 Segment expenses allocated to bulk customers(1)(2) 33,709 29,716 23,988 Segment profit from bulk customers(1)(2) 191 156 96 Segment profit from bulk customers as a percentage of revenue from bulk customers(1)(2) 0.6 % 0.5 % 0.4 % (1) Amounts shown are estimates based upon the internal analysis described above. The preparation of this internal analysis required the use of complex and subjective estimates and allocations based upon assumptions, past experience and judgment that the Company believes are reasonable. The core pharmaceutical distribution operation (Distribution) within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment services both bulk and non bulk customers. Therefore, expenses associated with this operation were allocated between bulk and non bulk customers as described below. The brokerage operation (Brokerage) within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment only services bulk customers, therefore, expenses associated with Brokerage are allocated to bulk customers. The remaining operations (i.e. excluding Distribution and Brokerage) within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment service non bulk customers, therefore, expenses associated with these operations were allocated to non bulk customers. 36 Table of Contents The following describes the allocation of the major components of cost of products sold for Distribution between bulk and non bulk customers: Cost of products sold for pharmaceutical products is determined by specifically tracking the manufacturers designated price of products, at the time the products are sold, by bulk and non bulk customers. The manufacturers designated price is then reduced by other components impacting cost of products sold, including distribution service agreement fees, pharmaceutical price appreciation, manufacturer cash discounts and manufacturer rebates and incentives. In addition, other inventory charges and credits are added or subtracted, as appropriate, to arrive at cost of products sold. The Company used the following methods that it believes provide a reasonable correlation to allocate the remaining components of cost of products sold between bulk and non bulk customers. Distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation are tracked by manufacturer. Therefore, the Company allocated the distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation associated with each manufacturer among their products in proportion to sales of each product between bulk and non bulk customers. Manufacturer cash discounts are recognized as a reduction to cost of products sold when the related inventory is sold and were allocated in proportion to the manufacturers published price of the product sold to bulk and non bulk customers. Manufacturers rebates and incentives are based on the individual agreements entered into with manufacturers related to specific products. Rebates and incentives were grouped by contract terms and then allocated in proportion to sales to bulk and non bulk customers. Other inventory charges and credits include charges for outdated and returned inventory items and fluctuation in inventory reserves. The Company estimated the portion of these inventory charges and credits attributable to each product and then allocated them to bulk and non bulk customers in proportion to the sales of these products. The Company used methods that it believes provide a reasonable correlation to allocate the selling, general and administrative expenses for Distribution between bulk and non bulk customers as follows: Warehouse expense includes labor related expenses associated with receiving, shipping and handling the inventory as well as warehouse storage costs including insurance, taxes, supplies and other facility costs. Warehouse expense was allocated in proportion to the number of invoice line items filled for each bulk or non bulk customer because the Company believes that there is a correlation between the number of different products ordered as reflected in invoice lines and the level of effort associated with receiving, shipping and handling that order (bulk customers typically order larger quantities of products for each invoice line); Delivery expense includes transportation costs associated with physically moving the product from the warehouse to the customers designated location. Delivery expense was allocated in proportion to the number of invoices generated for each bulk or non bulk customer on the assumption that each invoice generates a delivery; Sales expense includes personnel related costs associated with sales and customer service activities (such activities are the same for both bulk and non bulk customers). Sales expense was allocated in proportion to the number of invoices generated for each bulk or non bulk customer because customer invoices are a reasonable estimate of the amount of customer service calls and sales effort; and General and administrative expenses were allocated in proportion to the units of products sold to bulk or non bulk customers. These expenses were allocated on the assumption that general and administrative expenses increase or decrease in direct relation to the volume of sales. (2) Amounts exclude LIFO credit provisions of $0, $26 million and $32 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The internal analysis indicated segment expenses as a percentage of revenue were higher for bulk customers than for non bulk customers because of higher segment cost of products sold partially offset by lower segment SGA expenses. Bulk customers receive lower pricing on sales of the same products than non bulk customers due to volume pricing in a competitive market and the lower costs related to the services provided by the Company. In 37 Table of Contents addition, sales to bulk customers in aggregate generate higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue than sales to non bulk customers because bulk customers orders consist almost entirely of higher cost branded products. The higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue for bulk customers is also driven by lower manufacturer distribution service agreement fees and branded pharmaceutical price appreciation and lower manufacturer cash discounts. Manufacturer distribution service agreement fees and manufacturer cash discounts are recognized as a reduction to segment cost of products sold and are lower as a percentage of revenue due to the mix of products sold. Pharmaceutical price appreciation increases customer pricing which, in turn, results in higher segment gross margin for sales of inventory that was on hand at the time of the manufacturers price increase. Since products sold to bulk customers are generally held in inventory for a shorter time than products sold to non bulk customers, there is less opportunity to realize the benefit of pharmaceutical price appreciation. Consequently, segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue for bulk customers is higher than for non bulk customers and segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue is substantially lower for bulk customers than for non bulk customers. Deliveries to bulk customers require substantially less services by the Company than deliveries to non bulk customers. As such, the segment SGA expenses as a percentage of revenue from bulk customers are substantially lower than from non bulk customers. These factors result in segment profit as a percentage of revenue being significantly lower for bulk customers than for non bulk customers. The Company defines bulk customers based on the way in which the Company operates its business and the services it performs for its customers. The Company is not aware of an industry standard regarding the definition of bulk customers and based solely on a review of the Annual Reports on Form 10 K of other national pharmaceutical wholesalers, the Company notes that other companies in comparable businesses may, or may not, use a different definition of bulk customers. During fiscal 2007, segment profit from bulk customers increased $35 million, or 0.1% of revenue from bulk customers, due to increased sales volume described above and the year over year increase in distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation. Segment profit for non bulk customers increased $148 million, or 0.2% of revenue from non bulk customers, compared to fiscal 2006. This increase in segment profit from non bulk customers was due primarily to the increase in sales volume described above and the impact of generic products which had a greater impact on the profitability of non bulk customers due to the mix of pharmaceuticals distributed to non bulk customers. Fiscal 2006 segment profit from bulk customers increased $60 million, or 0.1% of revenue from bulk customers, due to increased sales volume described above and the year over year impact of new distribution service agreements and pharmaceutical price appreciation. The favorable impact of distribution service agreements and of pharmaceutical price appreciation had a greater impact on the profitability of bulk customers than on non bulk customers in fiscal 2006 due to the mix of branded pharmaceuticals distributed to bulk customers. These positive factors were partially offset by an increase in allocated equity based compensation expense of $10 million due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The fiscal 2006 segment profit for non bulk customers declined $136 million, or 0.4% of revenue from non bulk customers, compared to fiscal 2005. An increase in segment profit from non bulk customers due to increased sales and new distribution service agreements was offset by increased customer discounts, an increase in segment SGA expenses (which was largely due to sales growth and an increase in allocated equity based compensation expense of $57 million due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)), and a $32 million charge during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting credits owed to vendors. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical Performance During fiscal 2007, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment revenue increased $315 million while segment profit remained relatively flat. The Company remains focused on improving operating performance within this segment through continued investment in customer service and restructuring the business. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company announced its plan to combine the headquarters of the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical and Medical segments in order to promote sharing best practices and support functions to provide better service for its customers. Refer to Other Matters Global Restructuring Program below for further discussion of the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical restructuring program. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment revenue growth of $315 million or 4% during fiscal 2007 resulted primarily from increased volume from existing customers ($215 million) and new customer accounts ($100 million). Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment profit increased $4 million or 1% during 38 Table of Contents fiscal 2007. Gross margin increased segment profit by $27 million primarily as a result of revenue growth and the impact of increased manufacturer cash discounts ($6 million). Negatively impacting gross margin were increased customer discounts ($5 million) and trade receivable reserves ($7 million) related to the segments customer service and shared service transition. Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $23 million primarily in support of revenue growth and increased transportation costs ($5 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($14 million). During fiscal 2006, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment revenue growth of $376 million or 6% resulted primarily from increased volume from existing customers ($244 million) and new customer accounts ($115 million). Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment profit decreased $53 million or 14% during fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $53 million as a result of revenue growth and the favorable impact of the mix of private label and branded products ($9 million) due to emphasis being placed on selling Company branded products and other focused product categories and new products with higher margins ($4 million). Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $106 million in support of revenue growth and an increase in equity based compensation expense ($45 million) due primarily to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). Clinical Technologies and Services Performance During fiscal 2007, Clinical Technologies and Services segment revenue grew $257 million or 11%. Revenue growth was favorably impacted by new products ($119 million), increased sales volumes to existing customers ($90 million) due to renewals and expansion of product lines and new customers ($35 million). Acquisitions also favorably impacted the year over year comparison ($18 million). Clinical Technologies and Services segment profit increased $65 million or 20%. Gross margin increased segment profit by $132 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Gross margin was negatively impacted by the estimated costs of the Alaris SE pump corrective action plan and related consulting expenses ($18 million) due to the product recall. Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $67 million in support of the revenue growth and as a result of the impact of acquisitions ($22 million) and increased investment in product quality and research and development costs ($11 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($14 million). During fiscal 2006, Clinical Technologies and Services segment revenue growth of $241 million or 11% resulted primarily from revenue growth within the Pyxis and Alaris product lines. Pyxis products revenue increased $83 million due to higher unit sales resulting from increased demand for the Medstation 3000 product and improvements within the sales and installation cycles. Alaris products revenue increased $125 million due to competitive displacements driven by technological advantages and sales obtained through the Companys other relationships. These revenue increases were tempered by slower revenue growth in the clinical and consulting services ($52 million). Clinical Technologies and Services segment profit increased $82 million or 35% during fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $180 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included sales mix ($49 million) and manufacturing efficiencies ($12 million) driven by higher sales volume. Also favorably impacting the year over year comparison were the inventory valuation adjustments to fair value from the Alaris acquisition ($24 million) with the adjusted higher value inventory being sold during the first two quarters of fiscal 2005. Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $97 million due primarily to an increase in equity based compensation expense ($55 million) due primarily to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) and in support of the revenue growth. Estimated integration synergies from the Alaris acquisition ($54 million) favorably impacted both gross margin and SGA expenses. Medical Products Manufacturing Performance During fiscal 2007, Medical Products Manufacturing segment revenue grew $203 million or 12%. Revenue growth was favorably impacted by increased sales volume ($74 million) from existing customers and new customers won through new GPO contracts and competitor exits. Revenue growth was also favorably impacted by new product launches ($50 million), including innovations in gloves, respiratory products, surgical instruments and software, and international revenue growth ($62 million), which includes the impact of foreign exchange ($18 million). Acquisitions, including Denver Biomedical and Viasys, favorably impacted the year over year 39 Table of Contents comparison ($37 million). Due to the acquisition of Viasys, the Company expects significant growth in the Medical Products Manufacturing segment. Medical Products Manufacturing segment profit increased $33 million or 20% during fiscal 2007. Gross margin increased segment profit by $72 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included manufacturing cost reductions ($20 million) driven by strategic sourcing and expense control related to the Companys restructuring program and the integration of acquisitions ($21 million), primarily Denver Biomedical. Increases in SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by $39 million primarily in support of the segments revenue growth and from the impact of acquisitions ($13 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($12 million). During fiscal 2006, Medical Products Manufacturing segment revenue grew $96 million or 6% resulting from revenue growth from manufactured gloves and respiratory product lines ($45 million) due to new customer accounts ($14 million) and new products ($31 million) and international revenue growth ($16 million) from new customers. Medical Products Manufacturing segment profit decreased $11 million or 6% during fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $31 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included manufacturing cost reductions driven by cost controls ($30 million) and expense control partially related to the Companys global restructuring program ($12 million). Increased raw materials costs ($25 million) negatively impacted gross margin. Increases in SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by $42 million primarily due to the increase in equity based compensation ($41 million) and in support of the segments revenue growth. The latex litigation charge ($28 million) recorded during fiscal 2005 also favorably impacted the year over year comparison. Other Matters Acquisitions During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company acquired Viasys, which offered products and services directed at critical care ventilation, respiratory diagnostics and clinical services, neurological, vascular, audio, homecare, orthopedics, sleep diagnostics and other medical and surgical products markets. The value of the transaction, including the assumption of Viasyss debt, totaled approximately $1.5 billion. In addition, during fiscal 2007, the Company completed other acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these other acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $165 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $22 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations from the date of acquisition. Had the transactions, including Viasys, occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2006, consolidated results of operations would not have differed materially from reported results. For further information regarding the Companys acquisitions see Item 1 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. During fiscal 2006, the Company completed acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $364 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $149 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations from the date of acquisition. Had the transactions occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2005, consolidated results of operations would not have differed materially. During fiscal 2005, the Company completed acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $107 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $27 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations from the date of acquisition. Had the transactions occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2004, consolidated results of operations would not have differed materially. The Companys trend with regard to acquisitions has been to expand its role as a provider of services and innovative products to the healthcare industry. This trend has resulted in expansion into areas that complement the Companys existing operations and provide opportunities for the Company to develop synergies with, and strengthen, the acquired business. As the healthcare industry continues to change, the Company evaluates possible 40 Table of Contents candidates for acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry through all its reportable segments. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to successfully take advantage of any such opportunity if and when it arises or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are pursued or consummated, the Company would incur additional acquisition integration charges, and may need to enter into funding arrangements for such acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful. Sale of the PTS Business On April 10, 2007, the Company completed the sale of the PTS Business to Phoenix Charter LLC (Phoenix), an affiliate of The Blackstone Group, pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement between the Company and Phoenix, dated as of January 25, 2007 as amended (the Purchase Agreement). At the closing of the sale, the Company received approximately $3.2 billion in cash from Phoenix, which was the purchase price of approximately $3.3 billion as adjusted pursuant to certain provisions in the Purchase Agreement for the working capital, cash, indebtedness and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of the PTS Business. The Company recognized an after tax book gain of approximately $1.1 billion from this transaction. The Company used the after tax net proceeds of approximately $3.1 billion from the sale to repurchase shares. The Purchase Agreement contained customary indemnification provisions for sale transactions of this type. Global Restructuring Program During fiscal 2005, the Company launched a global restructuring program with a goal of increasing the value that the Company provides its customers through better integration of existing businesses and improved efficiency from a more disciplined approach to procurement and resource allocation. On April 30, 2007, the Company announced a third phase of its global restructuring program to move the headquarters of the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment and certain corporate functions from Waukegan, Illinois to the Companys corporate headquarters in Dublin, Ohio. The Company expects this third phase to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2009. See the Companys Form 8 K filed on April 30, 2007 for additional information. Adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) applying the modified prospective method. SFAS No. 123(R) requires all equity based payments to employees, including grants of employee options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for equity based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations, and equity based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure within the notes to the financial statements. In anticipation of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company did not modify the terms of any previously granted options. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Business Model Transition Historically, a significant portion of the pharmaceutical supply chain business gross margin was derived from the Companys ability to purchase pharmaceutical inventory, hold that inventory when a manufacturer increased prices, and sell that product at the higher price. Beginning in fiscal 2003, branded pharmaceutical manufacturers began to seek greater control over the amount of product available in the supply chain and, as a result, began to change their sales practices by restricting the volume of product available for purchase by wholesalers. In addition, manufacturers sought additional services from the Company, including providing data concerning product sales and distribution patterns. The Company believes that manufacturers sought these changes to provide them with greater visibility over product demand and movement in the market and to increase product safety and integrity by reducing the risks associated with product being available to, and distributed in, the secondary market. These changes significantly reduced the pharmaceutical price appreciation earned by the Company. 41 Table of Contents In response to these developments, the Company established a compensation system with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers that is significantly less dependent on manufacturers pricing practices, and is based on the services provided by the Company to meet the unique distribution requirements of each manufacturers products. During fiscal 2005, the Company worked with individual branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to define fee for service terms that compensate the Company based on the services being provided to such manufacturers. This transition was completed during fiscal 2006. These new arrangements have moderated the seasonality of earnings which have historically reflected the pattern of manufacturers price increases. Under the fee for service arrangements, reflected in written distribution service agreements, the Companys compensation for these services may be a fee or a fee plus pharmaceutical price appreciation. In certain instances, the Company must achieve certain performance criteria to receive the maximum fees under the agreement. The fee is typically a fixed percentage of either the Companys purchases from the manufacturer or the Companys sales of the manufacturers products to its customers. The Company continues to generate gross margin from the sale of some manufacturers products from pharmaceutical price appreciation without receiving distribution service agreement fees. If the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price appreciation slows, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Distribution service agreements between the Company and certain branded pharmaceutical manufacturers generally range from a one year term with an automatic renewal feature to a five year term. These agreements generally cannot be terminated unless mutually agreed by the parties, a breach of the agreement occurs that is not cured, or a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event occurs. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate the agreement without cause within a defined notice period. Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that can have a significant impact on the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and require use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Other companies applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing the Companys consolidated financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Allowance for doubtful accounts Trade receivables are amounts owed to the Company through its operating activities and are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company also provides financing to various customers. Such financing arrangements range from ninety days to ten years at interest rates that generally are subject to fluctuation. These financings may be collateralized, guaranteed by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivables are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and are included in other assets. Extending credit terms and calculating the required allowance for doubtful accounts involve the use of judgment by the Companys management. In determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, which includes portfolio and specific reserves, the Company reviews accounts receivable aging, industry trends, customer financial strength, credit standing, historical write off trends and payment history to assess the probability of collection. The Company continuously monitors the collectibility of its receivable portfolio by analyzing the aging of its accounts receivable, assessing credit worthiness of its customers and evaluating the impact of changes in economic conditions that may impact credit risks. If the frequency or severity of customer defaults change due to changes in customers financial condition or general economic conditions, the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts may require adjustment. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $128.9 million and $126.4 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This allowance represented 2.2% and 2.6% of customer receivables at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of revenue was 0.15%, 0.16% and 0.16% at June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts was reduced by $28.4 million, 42 Table of Contents $22.6 million and $21.2 million in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, for customer deductions and write offs and was increased by additional provisions of $24.0 million, $24.6 million and $7.7 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A hypothetical 0.1% increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables and sales type leases to the reserve at June 30, 2007 would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $5.9 million. Reserve methodologies are assessed annually based on historical losses and economic, business and market trends. In addition, reserves are reviewed quarterly and updated if unusual circumstances or trends are present. The Company believes the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal 2007 are appropriate and consistent with historical methodologies employed. At this time, the Company is not aware of any internal process or customer issues that might lead to a significant future increase in the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net revenue. See Schedule II included in this Form 10 K which includes a rollforward of activity for these allowance reserves. Inventories A substantial portion of inventories (approximately 73% and 75% at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively) are stated at the lower of cost, using the LIFO method, or market. These inventories are included within the core distribution facilities within the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment (core distribution facilities) and are primarily merchandise inventories. The LIFO impact on the consolidated statement of earnings in a given year is dependent on pharmaceutical price appreciation and the level of inventory. Prices for branded pharmaceuticals are primarily inflationary, which results in an increase in cost of products sold, whereas prices for generic pharmaceuticals are deflationary, which results in a decrease in cost of products sold. Under the LIFO method, it is assumed that the most recent inventory purchases are the first items sold. As such, the Company uses LIFO to better match current costs and revenue. Therefore, reductions in the overall inventory levels resulting from declining branded pharmaceutical inventory levels generally will result in a decrease in future cost of products sold, as the remaining inventory will be held at a lower cost due to the inflationary environment. Conversely, reductions in the overall inventory levels created by declining generic pharmaceutical inventory levels would generally increase future cost of products sold, as the remaining inventory will be held at a higher cost due to the deflationary environment. The Company believes that the average cost method of inventory valuation provides a reasonable approximation of the current cost of replacing inventory within the core distribution facilities. As such, the LIFO reserve is the difference between (a) inventory at the lower of LIFO cost or market and (b) inventory at replacement cost determined using the average cost method of inventory valuation. In fiscal 2007, the Company did not record any LIFO reserve reductions. The LIFO reserve reduction in fiscal 2006 of $26.0 million was primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories. The remaining inventory is primarily stated at the lower of cost, using the first in, first out (FIFO) method, or market. If the Company had used the average cost method of inventory valuation for all inventory within the core distribution facilities, inventories would not have changed in fiscal 2007 or fiscal 2006. In fact, primarily due to continued deflation in generic pharmaceutical inventories, inventories at LIFO were $55.8 million and $1.0 million higher than the average cost value as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. However, the Companys policy is not to record inventories in excess of its current market value. Inventories recorded on the Companys consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory which were $95.8 million and $112.2 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company reserves for inventory obsolescence using estimates based on historical experiences, sales trends, specific categories of inventory and age of on hand inventory. If actual conditions are less favorable than the Companys assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required, however these would not be expected to have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Business Combinations Assumptions and estimates are used in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of the Companys acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets which require management to use significant judgment in determining fair value. The Company typically utilizes third party valuation experts for this process. In addition, current and future amortization expense 43 Table of Contents for such intangibles is impacted by purchase price allocations as well as the assessment of estimated useful lives of such intangibles, excluding goodwill. The Company believes the assets recorded and the useful lives established are appropriate based upon current facts and circumstances. In conjunction with the review of a transaction, the valuation experts assess the status of the acquired companys research and development projects to determine the existence of IPRD. In connection with the acquisitions of Viasys and Care Fusion, the Company was required to estimate the fair value of acquired IPRD which required selecting an appropriate discount rate and estimating future cash flows for each project. Management also assessed the current status of development, nature and timing of efforts to complete such development, uncertainties and other factors when estimating the fair value. Costs were not assigned to IPRD unless future development was probable. Once the fair value was determined, an asset was established, and in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method, was immediately written off as a special item in the Companys consolidated statement of earnings. The Company recorded $83.9 million and $0.6 million as a special item in fiscal 2007 representing an estimate of Viasyss and Care Fusions acquired IPRD, respectively (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Goodwill and Other Intangibles The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Under SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily customer relationships and patents and trademarks, continue to be amortized over their useful lives. In conducting the impairment test, the fair value of the Companys reporting units is compared to its carrying amount including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, further analysis is performed to assess impairment. The Companys determination of fair value of the reporting units is based on a discounted cash flow analysis or a review of the price/earnings ratio for publicly traded companies similar in nature, scope and size. The methods and assumptions used to test impairment have been revised for the segment realignment for the periods presented. The discount rate used for impairment testing is based on the risk free rate plus an adjustment for risk factors. The use of alternative estimates, peer groups or changes in the industry, or adjusting the discount rate used could affect the estimated fair value of the assets and potentially result in impairment. Any identified impairment would result in an adjustment to the Companys results of operations. The Company performed its annual impairment tests in fiscal 2007 and 2006, neither of which resulted in the recognition of any impairment charges. Decreasing the price/earnings ratio of competitors used for impairment testing by one point or increasing the discount rate in the discounted cash flow analysis used for impairment testing by 1% would not have indicated impairment for any of the Companys reporting units for fiscal 2007 or 2006. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill and other intangibles. Special Items The Company records restructuring charges, acquisition integration charges and certain litigation and other items as special items. A restructuring activity is a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. Under this Statement, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred. Acquisition integration charges include costs to integrate acquired companies. Upon acquisition, certain integration charges are included within the purchase price allocation in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, and other integration charges are recorded as special items as incurred. 44 Table of Contents Certain litigation recorded in special items consists of settlements of significant lawsuits that are infrequent, non recurring or unusual in nature. The Company also classified legal fees and document preservation and production costs incurred in connection with the SEC investigation and the Audit Committee internal review and related matters as special items. The majority of the special items related to acquisition integration and restructurings can be classified in one of the following categories: employee related costs, exit costs (including lease termination costs), asset impairments and other integration costs. Employee costs include severance and termination benefits. Lease termination costs include lease cancellation fees, forfeited deposits and remaining payments due under existing lease agreements less estimated sublease income. Other facility exit costs include costs to move equipment or inventory out of a facility as well as other costs incurred to shut down a facility. Asset impairment costs include the reduction in value of the Companys assets as a result of the integration or restructuring activities. Other integration costs primarily include charges directly related to the integration plan such as consulting costs related to information systems and employee benefit plans as well as relocation and travel costs directly associated with the integration plan. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Vendor Reserves The Company maintains reserves to cover areas of exposure with its vendors. In determining appropriate vendor reserves, the Company assesses historical experience and current outstanding claims. The Company has established various levels of reserves based on the type of claim and status of review. The Company researches and resolves various types of contested transactions based on discussions with vendors, Company policy and findings of research performed. Though the transaction types are relatively consistent, the Company has periodically refined its estimate methodology over the past few years by updating the reserve estimate percentages based upon historical experiences. Changes to the estimate percentages have resulted in a financial impact to the Companys cost of products sold in the period in which the change was made. Vendor reserves were $72.6 million and $112.4 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Approximately 61% and 73% of the vendor reserve at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, pertained to the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. Fluctuations in the reserve balance are caused by the variations of outstanding claims from period to period, timing of settlements and specific vendor issues, such as bankruptcies (significant events would be described above in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Though vendor transactions remain relatively consistent from period to period, unforeseen events such as the deterioration in the financial condition of a large vendor or a settlement of numerous outstanding claims could cause the reserve to fluctuate, and thus, have a financial impact on the periods financial results. At any given time, there are outstanding items in various stages of research and resolution. The ultimate outcome of certain claims may be different than the Companys original estimate and may require adjustment. However, the Company believes reserves recorded for such disputes are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. Self Insurance Accruals The Company is self insured for employee medical and dental insurance programs. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $24.3 million and $24.1 million for estimated costs related to outstanding claims at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, administrative fees and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. These estimates are based on the Companys assessment of outstanding claims, historical analysis and current payment trends. The Company records an estimate for the claims incurred but not reported using an estimated lag period. This lag period assumption has been consistently applied for the periods presented. If the lag period was hypothetically adjusted by a period equal to a half month, the impact on earnings would be $6.0 million. If the amount of claims, medical or dental costs increase beyond what was estimated, the reserve might not be sufficient and additional expense could be required. However, the Company believes the liabilities recorded are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. 45 Table of Contents Medical and dental insurance expense was $174.6 million, $140.5 million and $140.4 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Through a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, the Company has certain deductibles or is self insured for various risks including general liability, product liability, pharmacist professional liability, auto liability, property and workers compensation. However, claims in excess of certain limits are insured with commercial insurers. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $82.2 million and $76.3 million for anticipated costs related to liability, property and workers compensation at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, defense costs, claims adjustment costs and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. For certain types of exposures the Company uses third parties to assist in developing the estimate of expected ultimate costs to settle each claim which is based on specific information related to each claim. For claims incurred but not reported the liabilities are calculated by outside actuaries and are derived in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practices. The amount of ultimate liability in respect to these matters is dependent on future contingent events that cannot be predicted with certainty and may differ from these estimates. Although the Company believes that liability estimates are appropriate based on information available at June 30, 2007, it is possible, based on generally accepted actuarial analysis, that under adverse conditions the ultimate liability could exceed recorded expected liabilities as of June 30, 2007 by as much as $4.9 million. The insurance expense for general liability, product liability, pharmacist professional liability, auto liability, property and workers compensation was $70.4 million, $71.3 million and $66.5 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and income tax reserves reflect managements assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the financial statements. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards for tax purposes. The Company had net deferred income tax assets of $394.2 million and $461.1 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company also had net deferred income tax liabilities of $1.7 billion at June 30, 2007 and 2006. Net deferred income tax assets included net federal, state and local, and international loss and credit carry forwards at June 30, 2007 and 2006 of $178.2 million and $84.9 million, respectively. The Company established a net valuation allowance of $180.5 million and $34.4 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, against certain deferred tax assets, which primarily relates to federal and state loss carryforwards for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. The Company established a $127.1 million valuation allowance in fiscal 2007 related to capital loss carryforwards resulting from the PTS Business divestiture for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. Expiring carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted annually. After application of the valuation allowances described above, the Company anticipates no limitations will apply with respect to utilization of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described above. In addition, the Company has established an estimated liability for federal, state and non U.S. income tax exposures that arise and meet the criteria for accrual under SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company prepares and files tax returns based on its interpretation of tax laws and regulations and records estimates based on these judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business, the Companys tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation, regulation and or as concluded through the various jurisdictions tax court systems. The Company has developed a methodology for estimating its tax liability related to such matters and has consistently followed such methodology from period to period. The liability amounts for such matters are based on an evaluation of the underlying facts and circumstances, a thorough research of the technical merits of the Companys arguments and an assessment of the probability of the Company prevailing in its arguments. In all cases, the Company considers previous findings of the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company generally consults with external tax advisers in reaching its conclusions. Amounts accrued for a particular period are adjusted when a significant change in facts or circumstances has occurred. 46 Table of Contents The Company believes that its estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and tax contingency reserves are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop a different estimate and the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued. In addition to income mix from geographical regions, the significant assumptions and estimates described in the preceding paragraphs are important contributors to the ultimate effective tax rate in each year. Although not material to the effective tax rate for the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, if any of the Companys assumptions or estimates were to change, an increase/decrease in the Companys effective tax rate by 1% on earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations would have caused income tax expense to increase/decrease by $12.5 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company is required to adopt the provisions of FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. This standard also provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. This interpretation also provides guidance on measurement, derecognizing, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The Company is currently assessing the impact of FIN No. 48 on its consolidated financial statements. Loss Contingencies The Company accrues for contingencies related to litigation in accordance with SFAS No. 5, which requires the Company to assess contingencies to determine degree of probability and range of possible settlement. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in the Companys consolidated financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the settlement can be reasonably estimated. Assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. The Company regularly reviews contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of ultimate settlement may differ from these estimates. Equity Based Compensation During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, applying the modified prospective method. This Statement requires all equity based payments to employees, including grants of options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. The fair values of options granted after the Company adopted this Statement were determined using a lattice valuation model and all options granted prior to adoption of this Statement were valued using a Black Scholes model. The Companys estimate of an options fair value is dependent on a complex estimation process that requires the estimation of future uncertain events. These estimates which are entered within the option valuation model include, but are not limited to, stock price volatility, the expected option life, expected dividend yield and option forfeiture rates. Effective with all options granted subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company estimates its future stock price volatility based on implied volatility from traded options on the Companys Common Shares and historical volatility over a period of time commensurate with the contractual term of the option grant (7 years). The Company analyzed historical data to estimate option exercise behaviors and employee terminations to estimate the expected option life and forfeiture rates. The Company calculated separate option valuations for three separate groups of employees with similar historical exercise behaviors. Once employee stock option values are determined, current accounting practices do not permit them to be changed, even if the estimates used in the valuation model are different from actual results. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the Company to compare its estimated option forfeiture rates to actual forfeiture rates and record any adjustments as necessary. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. 47 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources and Uses of Cash The following table summarizes the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Net cash provided by/(used in) continuing operations: Operating activities $ 1,003.0 $ 1,850.2 $ 2,475.6 Investing activities (1,611.5 ) (1,087.2 ) (693.9 ) Financing activities (2,593.4 ) (1,015.8 ) (1,652.7 ) Net cash provided by/(used in) discontinued operations: Operating activities $ 220.1 $ 270.6 $ 380.1 Investing activities 3,148.7 (100.0 ) (182.2 ) Financing activities (45.4 ) (16.4 ) (4.6 ) Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations during fiscal 2007 totaled $1.0 billion, a decrease of $847 million when compared to fiscal 2006. The decrease was a result of the decline in net income from continuing operations ($324 million) due to the litigation charges and cash settlements made in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 ($655 million). See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the litigation settlements. The increase in trade receivables ($783 million) was based on the repurchase of trade receivables ($550 million) under the Companys committed receivables program, as discussed in Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In line with the Companys focus on capital deployment, inventory levels declined $217 million and accounts payable increased $224 million. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations during fiscal 2006 totaled $1.9 billion, a decrease of $625 million when compared to fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily a result of the net proceeds received during fiscal 2005 under the Companys committed receivables sales facility program ($550 million). See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding this program. During fiscal 2006, the accounts payable increase ($1.5 billion) was partially offset by increased inventories ($356 million) and increased accounts receivable ($895 million). The accounts payable, trade receivable and inventory increases were due to new sales volume from an existing large retail chain customer and the timing of inventory purchases from vendors in the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations during fiscal 2007 totaled $220 million. Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations in fiscal 2007 was a result of earnings from discontinued operations ($1.1 billion) less the gain on the sale of the PTS Business ($1.1 billion). Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations during fiscal 2006 and 2005 totaled $271 million and $380 million, respectively. Net cash provided by discontinued operations in fiscal 2006 and 2005 was a result of the loss from discontinued operations ($163 million and $16 million, respectively), offset by the changes in the operating assets and liabilities from discontinued operations. Investing activities. Net cash used by investing activities for continuing operations of $1.6 billion during fiscal 2007 reflected cash used to complete acquisitions to broaden and enhance product offerings, including Viasys within the Medical Products Manufacturing segment, MedMined and Care Fusion within the Clinical Technologies and Services segment and SpecialtyScripts within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. See Acquisitions and Divestitures within Item 1 Business of this Form 10 K and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Companys acquisitions. Proceeds from the sale of short term investments classified as available for sale ($367 million) were offset by capital spending ($357 million) to develop and enhance the Companys infrastructure including facilities, information systems and machinery and equipment. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Companys investments. 48 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities for continuing operations of $1.1 billion during fiscal 2006 reflected the Companys purchase of short term investments classified as available for sale ($399 million) and capital spending ($340 million). In addition, during fiscal 2006, the Company used cash to complete acquisitions ($362 million) which expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry and are primarily associated with the acquisitions of Dohmen and ParMed within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, Denver Biomedical within the Medical Products Manufacturing segment and the remaining minority interest of Source Medical within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment. Net cash used in investing activities for continuing operations during fiscal 2005 of $694 million reflected the Companys capital spending ($340 million), the acquisitions of Alaris and Geodax ($273 million) and the purchase of short term investments classified as available for sale ($100 million). Net cash provided by investing activities for discontinued operations in fiscal 2007 of $3.1 billion reflected proceeds from the PTS Business divestiture ($3.2 billion) offset by capital spending ($108 million). Net cash used in investing activities for discontinued operations in fiscal 2006 and 2005 of $100 million and $182 million, respectively, primarily represents capital spending ($103 million and $214 million, respectively). Financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities for continuing operations of $2.6 billion during fiscal 2007 reflected the Companys repurchase of its Common Shares ($3.7 billion) and dividend payments to shareholders ($144 million). See Share Repurchases below for additional information. The Company also used cash to repay long term obligations ($784 million). Cash provided by financing activities included proceeds received from the issuance of long term obligations, net of issuance costs ($1.5 billion) and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans ($553 million). See Capital Resources below for further discussion of the Companys financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities for continuing operations of $1.0 billion during fiscal 2006 reflected the Companys repurchase of its Common Shares ($1.5 billion) and dividend payments to shareholders ($102 million). The Company also used cash to purchase certain buildings and equipment which were under capital lease agreements ($258 million) reflected in the reduction of long term obligations. Cash provided by financing activities includes proceeds received from the issuance of long term obligations, net of issuance costs ($497 million) and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans ($241 million). Net cash used in financing activities for continuing operations of $1.7 billion during fiscal 2005 reflected the Companys decisions to retire debt ($1.9 billion) and commercial paper ($551 million) assumed in the Alaris acquisition. The Company also used cash to repurchase its Common Shares ($500 million) and pay dividends to shareholders ($52 million) as authorized by its Board of Directors. Cash provided by financing activities include proceeds received from the issuance of long term obligations, net of issuance costs ($1.3 billion) and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans ($111 million). Net cash used in financing activities for discontinued operations in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 reflected $39 million, $48 million and $22 million, respectively, in repayments on borrowings. Sources of cash for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 were additional borrowings of $4 million, $29 million and $17 million, respectively. International Cash The Companys cash balance of approximately $1.3 billion as of June 30, 2007 included approximately $707 million of cash held by its subsidiaries outside of the United States. Although the vast majority of cash held outside the United States is available for repatriation, doing so subjects it to United States federal income tax. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding income taxes. Share Repurchases The Company repurchased approximately $5.8 billion of its Common Shares, in the aggregate, through share repurchase programs during fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. During fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased $3.8 billion of its Common Shares under a $4.5 billion repurchase program or 53.8 million shares at an average price per share of $69.79. This $4.5 billion repurchase program will expire on June 30, 2008. On August 8, 2007, the Company announced a new $2.0 billion share repurchase program which expires on August 31, 2009. The share repurchase activity (apart from the use of net proceeds from the PTS Business divestiture) supports the Companys previously 49 Table of Contents stated long term goal to return 50% of net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations to shareholders. During fiscal 2006 and 2005 the Company repurchased $1.5 billion and $500 million, respectively, of Common Shares. The Companys fiscal 2006 and 2005 Common Share repurchases represent 22.0 million and 8.9 million shares at an average price per share of $68.39 and $56.76, respectively. See Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities within Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for further information regarding the Companys most recent share repurchase program. Capital Resources In addition to cash, the Companys sources of liquidity include a $1.5 billion commercial paper program backed by a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility and a committed receivables sales facility program with the capacity to sell $800 million in receivables. The Company increased the commercial paper program from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion on February 28, 2007. The Company had no outstanding borrowings from the commercial paper program at June 30, 2007. On January 24, 2007, the Company amended certain terms of the revolving credit facility which is available for general corporate purposes. As part of the amendment, the amount of the facility was increased from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion and the term was extended to January 24, 2012. At expiration, this facility can be extended upon mutual consent of the Company and the lending institutions. This revolving credit facility exists largely to support issuances of commercial paper as well as other short term borrowings for general corporate purposes and remained unused at June 30, 2007, except for $79 million of standby letters of credit issued on behalf of the Company. During the second quarter, the Company repurchased the aggregate $550 million of receivable interests outstanding under its committed receivables sales facility program with the capacity to sell $800 million in receivables. After these repurchases, the Company did not have any receivable interest sales outstanding under its receivables sales facility program. On October 31, 2006, the Company renewed the receivables sales facility program for a period of one year. See Note 19 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Companys committed receivables sales facility program. The Company also maintains other short term credit facilities and an unsecured line of credit that allows for borrowings up to $131 million, of which $29 million was outstanding at June 30, 2007. The Company entered into a $500 million short term loan facility on March 30, 2007 and it was terminated on April 10, 2007. The Company also terminated a $150 million extendible commercial note program in the third quarter of fiscal 2007. On October 3, 2006, the Company sold $350 million aggregate principal amount of 2009 floating rate notes and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.80% notes due 2016 in a private offering. The proceeds of the debt issuance were used to repay $500 million of the Companys preferred debt securities, $127 million of the 7.30% notes due 2006 and other short term obligations of the Company. On June 8, 2007, the Company sold $300 million aggregate principal amount of 5.65% notes due 2012 and $300 million aggregate principal amount of 6.00% notes due 2017 in a private offering. The proceeds of the debt issuance were used to fund a portion of the purchase price of the Viasys acquisition and for general corporate purposes. During fiscal 2001, the Company entered into an agreement to periodically sell trade receivables to a special purpose accounts receivable and financing entity (the Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity), which is exclusively engaged in purchasing trade receivables from, and making loans to, the Company. The Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity, which is consolidated by the Company as it is the primary beneficiary of the variable interest entity, issued $250 million and $400 million in preferred variable debt securities to parties not affiliated with the Company during fiscal 2004 and 2001, respectively. On October 26, 2006, the Company amended certain of the facility terms of the Companys preferred debt securities. As part of this amendment, the Company 50 Table of Contents repaid $500 million of the principal balance with a portion of the proceeds of the October 2006 sale of notes discussed above and a minimum net worth covenant was added whereby the minimum net worth of the Company cannot fall below $5.0 billion at any time. The amendment eliminated a minimum adjusted tangible net worth covenant (adjusted tangible net worth could not fall below $2.5 billion) and certain financial ratio covenants. After the repayment, the Company had $150 million of preferred debt securities outstanding. These preferred debt securities are classified as long term obligations, less current portion and other short term obligations in the Companys consolidated balance sheet. See Notes 10 and 19 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about the Companys capital resources. From time to time, the Company considers and engages in acquisition transactions in order to expand its role as a leading provider of products and services that improve the safety and productivity of healthcare. The Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its role as a provider of products and services to the healthcare industry through all its reportable segments. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, the Company may need to enter into funding arrangements for such mergers or acquisitions. The Company currently believes that, based upon existing cash, operating cash flows, available capital resources (as discussed above) and other available market transactions, it has adequate capital resources at its disposal to fund currently anticipated capital expenditures, business growth and expansion, contractual obligations and current and projected debt service requirements, including those related to business combinations. Debt Ratings/Covenants The Companys senior debt credit ratings from SP, Moodys and Fitch are BBB, Baa2 and BBB+, respectively, and the commercial paper ratings are A 2, P 2 and F2, respectively. The Moodys and Fitch rating outlooks are stable and the SP outlook is positive. The Companys various borrowing facilities and long term debt are free of any financial covenants other than minimum net worth which cannot fall below $5.0 billion at any time. As of June 30, 2007, the Company was in compliance with this covenant. A breach of this covenant would be followed by a grace period during which the Company may discuss remedies with the security holders, or extinguish the securities, without causing an event of default. Interest Rate and Currency Risk Management The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to cash flow variability. The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to protect the value of its existing foreign currency assets and liabilities and the value of its debt. See Notes 1 and 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives, including foreign currency hedging instruments. 51 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2007, the Companys contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows (in millions): 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total On Balance Sheet: Long term debt(1) $ 13.1 $ 655.0 $ 789.4 $ 1,999.8 $ 3,457.3 Interest on long term debt 202.0 376.0 302.2 732.5 1,612.7 Capital lease obligations(2) 3.7 6.4 5.4 4.0 19.5 Other long term liabilities(3) 14.9 21.0 7.2 0.1 43.2 Off Balance Sheet: Operating leases(4) 105.2 159.4 113.1 114.0 491.7 Purchase obligations(5) 499.4 58.9 36.0 10.5 604.8 Total financial obligations $ 838.3 $ 1,276.7 $ 1,253.3 $ 2,860.9 $ 6,229.2 (1) Represents maturities of the Companys long term debt obligations excluding capital lease obligations described below. See Note 10 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (2) Represents maturities of the Companys capital lease obligations included within long term obligations on the Companys balance sheet and the related estimated future interest payments. (3) Represents cash outflows by period for certain of the Companys long term liabilities in which cash outflows could be reasonably estimated. Certain long term liabilities, such as deferred taxes, have been excluded from the table above as there are no cash outflows associated with the liabilities or the timing of the cash outflows cannot reasonably be estimated. (4) Represents minimum rental payments and the related estimated future interest payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms as described in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (5) Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and specifying all significant terms, including the following: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which the Company is obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally cancelled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from the Companys total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. The significant amount disclosed within fiscal 2008, as compared to other periods, primarily represents obligations to purchase inventories within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements See Liquidity and Capital Resources Capital Resources above and Note 19 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of off balance sheet arrangements. Recent Financial Accounting Standards See Note 1 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards. 52 Table of Contents Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The Company is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations as a result of certain market risks. These market risks primarily relate to foreign exchange, interest rate, and commodity related changes. The Company maintains a comprehensive hedging program to manage volatility related to these market exposures. It employs operational, economic, and derivative financial instruments in order to mitigate risk. See Notes 1 and 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Companys use of derivative instruments. Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity By nature of the Companys global operations, it is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations resulting from foreign exchange rate variation. These exposures are transactional and translational in nature. Since the Company manufactures and sells its products throughout the world, its foreign currency risk is diversified. Principal drivers of this diversified foreign exchange exposure include the Canadian dollar, European euro, Mexican peso, Thai baht, British pound, and Australian dollar. Transactional Exposure The Companys transactional exposure arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than the functional currency of the parent or its subsidiaries. As part of its risk management program, at the end of each fiscal year the Company performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted transactional exposure for the upcoming fiscal year. The analysis utilizes an implied volatility measurement for each currency to estimate the net potential gain or loss. The analysis included the estimated impact of its hedging program, which mitigates the Companys transactional exposure. At June 30, 2007 and 2006, the Company had hedged approximately 46% and 44%, respectively, of its transactional exposures. The following table summarizes the analysis as it relates to the Companys transactional exposure (in millions): 2007 2006 Net estimated transactional exposure $ 667.4 $ 471.4 Sensitivity gain/loss 45.6 39.5 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (20.6 ) (17.3 ) Estimated net gain/loss $ 25.0 $ 22.2 Translational Exposure The Company also has exposure related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign divisions into U.S. dollars, the functional currency of the parent. It performs a similar analysis as described above related to this translational exposure. The Company does not typically hedge any of its translational exposure and no hedging impact was included in the Companys analysis at June 30, 2007 and 2006. The following table summarizes the Companys translational exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening in the U.S. dollar (in millions): 2007 2006 Net estimated translational exposure $ 89.0 $ 93.0 Sensitivity gain/loss 8.9 9.3 Interest Rate Sensitivity The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing and investing activities to maintain liquidity and fund business operations. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions and other factors. The Companys policy is to manage exposures to interest rates using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt as deemed appropriate by management. The Company utilizes interest rate swap instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate movements. 53 Table of Contents As part of its risk management program, the Company annually performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted exposure to interest rates for the following fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. At June 30, 2007 and 2006, the potential increase or decrease in interest expense under this analysis as a result of this hypothetical change was $9.4 million and $6.2 million, respectively. Commodity Price Sensitivity The Company purchases certain commodities for use in its manufacturing processes, which include latex, heating oil, diesel fuel and polystyrene, among others. The Company typically purchases these commodities at market prices, and as a result, is affected by price fluctuations. As part of its risk management program, the Company performs sensitivity analysis on its forecasted commodity exposure for the following fiscal year. At June 30, 2007 and 2006, the Company had not hedged any of these exposures. The table below summarizes the Companys analysis of these forecasted commodity exposures and a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices as of June 30, 2007 and 2006 (in millions): 2007 2006 Estimated commodity exposure $ 251.3 $ 173.7 Sensitivity gain/loss 25.1 17.4 The Company also has exposure to certain energy related commodities, including natural gas and electricity through its normal course of business. These exposures result primarily from operating the Companys distribution, manufacturing, and corporate facilities. In certain deregulated markets, the Company from time to time enters into long term purchase contracts to supply these items at a specific price. 54 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA At or for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30,(1) 2007 2006(2) 2005 2004 2003 (In millions, except per common share amounts) Earnings Data: Revenue $ 86,852.0 $ 79,664.2 $ 72,666.0 $ 63,043.1 $ 55,077.3 Earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting $ 839.7 $ 1,163.3 $ 1,067.1 $ 1,354.8 $ 1,192.5 Earnings/(loss) from discontinued operations(3) 1,091.4 (163.2 ) (16.4 ) 158.2 182.6 Cumulative effect of change in accounting(4) (38.5 ) Net earnings $ 1,931.1 $ 1,000.1 $ 1,050.7 $ 1,474.5 $ 1,375.1 Basic earnings/(loss) per Common Share Continuing operations $ 2.13 $ 2.76 $ 2.48 $ 3.12 $ 2.67 Discontinued operations(3) 2.76 (0.38 ) (0.04 ) 0.36 0.41 Cumulative effect of change in accounting(4) (0.09 ) Net basic earnings per Common Share $ 4.89 $ 2.38 $ 2.44 $ 3.39 $ 3.08 Diluted earnings/(loss) per Common Share Continuing operations $ 2.07 $ 2.71 $ 2.45 $ 3.08 $ 2.63 Discontinued operations(3) 2.70 (0.38 ) (0.04 ) 0.36 0.40 Cumulative effect of change in accounting(4) (0.09 ) Net diluted earnings per Common Share $ 4.77 $ 2.33 $ 2.41 $ 3.35 $ 3.03 Cash dividends declared per Common Share(5) $ 0.390 $ 0.270 $ 0.150 $ 0.120 $ 0.105 Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 23,153.8 $ 23,433.3 $ 21,886.6 $ 21,063.0 $ 18,177.0 Long term obligations, less current portion and other short term borrowings 3,457.3 2,588.6 2,302.1 2,818.7 2,444.3 Shareholders equity 7,376.9 8,490.7 8,593.0 7,976.3 7,674.5 (1) Amounts reflect business combinations and the impact of special items in all periods presented. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of special items affecting fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. Fiscal 2004 amounts reflect the impact of special items of $38.8 million ($23.9 million, net of tax). Fiscal 2003 amounts reflect the impact of special items of $88.5 million ($60.9 million, net of tax). (2) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, applying the modified prospective method. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for equity based awards under the intrinsic value 25 Table of Contents method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations, and equity based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure within the notes to the financial statements. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3) During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company committed to plans to sell the PTS Business thereby meeting the criteria for classification of discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets and Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03 13, Applying the Conditions in Paragraph 42 of FASB Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in Determining Whether to Report Discontinued Operations. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company committed to plans to sell a significant portion of its healthcare marketing services business and its United Kingdom based Intercare pharmaceutical distribution business, thereby meeting the held for sale criteria set forth in SFAS No. 144. During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company decided to discontinue its sterile pharmaceutical manufacturing business in Humacao, Puerto Rico, thereby meeting the criteria for classification of discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144 and EITF Issue No. 03 13. In addition, on January 1, 2003, the Company acquired Syncor. Prior to the acquisition, Syncor had announced the discontinuation of certain operations including the medical imaging business and certain overseas operations. The Company proceeded with the discontinuation of these operations and included additional international and non core domestic businesses in the discontinued operations. The Company sold substantially all of the Syncor related discontinued operations prior to the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2005. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) Effective at the beginning of fiscal 2004, the Company changed its method of recognizing cash discounts from recognizing cash discounts as a reduction of costs of products sold primarily upon payment of vendor invoices to recording cash discounts as a component of inventory cost and recognizing such discounts as a reduction of cost of products sold upon sale of inventory. (5) Cash dividends per Common Share exclude dividends paid by all entities with which subsidiaries of the Company have merged. Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis presented below refers to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10 K. Unless otherwise indicated, throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, discussion of matters in the Companys consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations. The Companys discussion of results of operations is presented in four parts: Company Overview, Consolidated Results of Operations, Segment Results of Operations and Other Matters. Company Overview Strategic Overview Cardinal Health is a leading provider of products and services that improve the safety and productivity of healthcare. The Company is one of the largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies focusing on making supply chains more efficient. The Company distributes approximately one third of all pharmaceuticals prescribed in the United States and also distributes or manufactures products that are used in approximately 50% of all surgeries in the United States. The Company develops market leading technologies, including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing systems, MedMinedtm electronic infection surveillance, Viasys respiratory care products and the Care Fusiontm patient identification system. The Companys Pyxis and Alaris systems distribute approximately 8.5 million doses of medication every day. Customers include hospitals and clinics, some of the largest drug store chains in the United States and many other healthcare providers and retail outlets. The Company believes that its depth and breadth of products is unique in the industry and gives it a competitive advantage. 26 Table of Contents Cardinal Healths mission is to make the practice and delivery of healthcare safer and more productive for healthcare providers. Over the last fiscal year the Company made three major changes to better pursue its mission: the Company reorganized its businesses and reportable segments; the Company divested the PTS Business to focus on the healthcare provider in both the retail and hospital settings; and the Company made strategic acquisitions that broaden and enhance product offerings. First, the Company reorganized its reportable segments effective the first quarter of fiscal 2007 and began reporting its financial information within the following five reportable segments: Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical; Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical; Clinical Technologies and Services; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services; and Medical Products Manufacturing. This change in segment reporting resulted from a realignment of the individual businesses to better correlate the operations of the Company with the needs of its customers. This change had no effect on the Companys reported net earnings or net earnings per Common Share. Second, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company completed the sale of the PTS Business for approximately $3.2 billion in cash. The Company used the after tax net proceeds of approximately $3.1 billion to repurchase its Common Shares. The Company recognized an after tax book gain of approximately $1.1 billion from this transaction. The assets and liabilities of the PTS Business were classified as held for sale in prior periods and its operating results were classified within discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 8 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Companys discontinued operations. The Companys remaining four segments after the sale of the PTS business align within two sectors: the Healthcare Supply Chain Services sector, which includes the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segments, and the Clinical and Medical Products sector, which includes the Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing segments. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services sector focuses on delivering best in class distribution and logistics services to its customers. The sector generates 95% of total segment revenue, approximately three quarters of total segment profit (as defined below in the Segment Results of Operations section) and consistent and reliable cash flow. The Clinical and Medical Products sector focuses largely on developing innovative products for hospitals and other providers of care. The sector, with its higher margin products and services and faster growing segment profit has grown to contribute approximately one fourth of total segment profit. Third, during fiscal 2007, the Company acquired Viasys, MedMined and Care Fusion along with other acquisitions. Viasys is a leader in respiratory care through the development and marketing of systems for critical care and diagnostic use and offers products and services directed at critical care ventilation, respiratory diagnostics and clinical services, neurological, vascular, audio, homecare, orthopedics, sleep diagnostics and other medical and surgical products markets. The value of the transaction, including the assumption of Viasyss debt, totaled approximately $1.5 billion. Viasys is being integrated into the Medical Products Manufacturing segment. The Company also acquired MedMined, a leader in tracking and predicting infection management opportunities within major hospitals and Care Fusion, which focuses on bedside bar code utilization for tracking hospital samples. Both businesses are being integrated into the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. For further information regarding the Companys acquisitions see Item 1 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures, Other Matters Acquisitions below and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For further information regarding the Companys business, see Item 1 Business within this Form 10 K. Financial Overview Continued demand for the Companys products and services in fiscal 2007 led to revenue of $86.9 billion, up 9% from fiscal 2006. Operating earnings, which were negatively impacted by special items ($772 million), decreased 26% to approximately $1.4 billion. The significant increase in special items related to reserves for litigation settlements ($655 million) and in process research and development (IPRD) expenses primarily in connection with the Viasys acquisition ($85 million). The year over year operating earnings comparison was 27 Table of Contents favorably impacted by increased gross margin ($431 million) partially offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses ($200 million). Net earnings, which included the gain from the sale of the PTS Business ($1.1 billion), were $1.9 billion and net diluted earnings per Common Share were $4.77. Fiscal 2007 cash from operating activities decreased $898 million to $1.2 billion primarily due to the payment of litigation settlement reserves and government fines ($690 million) as discussed in the Special Items section below. Cash provided by investing activities was $1.5 billion due primarily to net proceeds from the PTS Business divesture ($3.1 billion) offset by cash paid for acquisitions ($1.6 billion). Cash used in financing activities was $2.6 billion due to the Companys cash payments for treasury shares ($3.7 billion) offset by net proceeds from borrowings ($631 million) and issuance of shares ($553 million). During fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased approximately $3.8 billion of its Common Shares under a $4.5 billion repurchase authorization of which $3.7 billion was settled prior to year end. On August 8, 2007, the Company announced a new $2.0 billion share repurchase program which expires on August 31, 2009. See the table under Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for more information regarding the share repurchases. Also during fiscal 2007, the Company paid $144 million in dividends or $0.36 per share. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Board of Directors raised the quarterly dividend by 33% to $0.12 per share. The share repurchase activity (apart from the use of net proceeds from the PTS Business divestiture) and increased dividend payments support the Companys previously stated long term goal to return 50% of net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations to shareholders and to increase its dividend payout to 20% of earnings per share. Consolidated Results of Operations The following table summarizes the Companys consolidated results of operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions, except per Common Share amounts): Change(1) Consolidated Results of Operations 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 Revenue 9 % 10 % $ 86,852.0 $ 79,664.2 $ 72,666.0 Cost of products sold(2) 9 % 10 % 81,606.7 74,850.2 68,206.3 Gross margin 9 % 8 % $ 5,245.3 $ 4,814.0 $ 4,459.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses(2) (3) 7 % 15 % 3,082.3 2,882.8 2,497.7 Impairment charges and other N.M. N.M. 17.3 5.8 38.3 Special items N.M. N.M. 772.0 80.5 141.5 Operating earnings (26 )% 4 % $ 1,373.7 $ 1,844.9 $ 1,782.2 Interest expense and other 16 % (11 )% 121.4 104.5 117.8 Earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations (28 )% 5 % $ 1,252.3 $ 1,740.4 $ 1,664.4 Provision for income taxes (29 )% (3 )% 412.6 577.1 597.3 Earnings from continuing operations (28 )% 9 % $ 839.7 $ 1,163.3 $ 1,067.1 Earnings / (loss) from discontinued operations N.M. N.M. 1,091.4 (163.2 ) (16.4 ) Net earnings 93 % (5 )% $ 1,931.1 $ 1,000.1 $ 1,050.7 Net diluted earnings per Common Share 105 % (3 )% $ 4.77 $ 2.33 $ 2.41 (1) Change is calculated as the percentage increase or (decrease) for a given year as compared to the immediately preceding year. (2) During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company changed the classification of certain immaterial implementation costs associated with the sale of medication and supply storage devices in the Clinical Technologies and Services segment from selling, general and administrative expenses to cost of products sold. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the new presentation. 28 Table of Contents (3) Equity based compensation expense was $138 million, $208 million and $9 million, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Revenue Revenue increased $7.2 billion or 9% during fiscal 2007 due to growth in each of the Companys four reportable segments, including revenue growth of $6.5 billion within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, due primarily to growth in revenue from bulk customers ($4.0 billion). The increase in revenue from bulk customers was due to certain existing customers deciding to purchase a greater volume of product from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer and to pharmaceutical price appreciation. The Company uses the internal metric pharmaceutical price appreciation index to evaluate the impact of pharmaceutical and consumer product price appreciation on revenue from the pharmaceutical supply chain business. This metric is calculated using the change in the manufacturers published price at the beginning of the period as compared to the end of the period weighted by the units sold by the pharmaceutical supply chain business during the period. The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 6.3% during fiscal 2007. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment represents approximately 86% of total segment revenue. Refer to Segment Results of Operations below for further discussion of the specific factors affecting revenue in each of the Companys reportable segments. Revenue increased $7.0 billion or 10% during fiscal 2006 due to increased revenue within each of the Companys four reportable segments, including revenue growth of $6.4 billion within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, due primarily to growth in revenue from bulk customers ($5.8 billion). The increase in revenue from bulk customers was due to overall market growth and certain existing customers deciding to purchase a greater volume of product from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer. The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 5.6% during fiscal 2006. Cost of Products Sold Cost of products sold increased $6.8 billion or 9% and $6.6 billion or 10%, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006. The increases in cost of products sold were mainly due to the respective 9% and 10% growth in revenue for fiscal 2007 and 2006. See the Gross Margin discussion below for further discussion of additional factors impacting cost of products sold. Gross Margin Gross margin increased $431 million or 9% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 over the prior fiscal year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to revenue growth of $7.2 billion. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included increased sales of clinical and medical products and related services ($204 million), increased manufacturer cash discounts ($193 million), generic pharmaceutical margin ($192 million) and distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $171 million). Gross margin was negatively impacted by the increase in customer discounts within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segments ($324 million) due to increased sales and competitive pricing pressures. Refer to the Segment Results of Operations below for further discussion of the specific factors affecting gross margin in each of the Companys reportable segments. Due to the competitive markets in which the Companys businesses operate, the Company expects competitive pricing pressures to continue; however, the Company expects the margin impact of these pricing pressures will be mitigated through sales growth of higher margin manufactured products, effective product sourcing, realization of synergies through integration of acquired businesses and continued focus on cost controls. Gross margin increased $354 million or 8% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to revenue growth of $7.0 billion. Gross margin was favorably impacted by increased gross margin in clinical and manufactured products and related services ($211 million) and manufacturer cash discounts ($139 million) and distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $134 million) from the pharmaceutical supply chain business within the Healthcare Supply Chain 29 Table of Contents Services Pharmaceutical segment. Gross margin was negatively impacted by increased customer discounts ($232 million) in the pharmaceutical supply chain business. Selling, General and Administrative (SGA) Expenses SGA expenses increased $200 million or 7% during fiscal 2007 primarily in support of revenue growth. Additional items impacting SGA expenses included increases due to acquisitions ($72 million) and the Companys charitable contribution to the Cardinal Health Foundation ($30 million). SGA expenses were favorably impacted by the year over year reduction in equity based compensation expense ($70 million). The reduction in equity based compensation expense was due in part to changes made to the Companys equity compensation program and the grant of stock appreciation rights in the prior year. Refer to Segment Results of Operations below for further discussion of the specific factors affecting SGA expenses in each of the Companys reportable segments. The Company expects SGA expenses to grow in fiscal 2008 in support of sales growth and new product and service offerings and as a result of the impact of acquisitions and continued investment in research and development projects and international expansion; however, the Company does expect to generate expense efficiencies through the integration of acquired companies and other cost controls. SGA expenses increased $385 million or 15% during fiscal 2006 primarily in support of the $7.0 billion revenue growth and as a result of increased equity based compensation expense ($199 million), primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). See Other Matters Adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) below and Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. Additional items impacting SGA expenses included increased incentive compensation expense ($36 million) due to improved operating performance, incremental expenses associated with the Companys global restructuring program ($38 million) and increased legal expenses ($15 million) due to then outstanding litigation. Impairment Charges and Other The Company recognized impairment charges and other of $17 million, $6 million and $38 million, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding impairment charges and other. Special Items The following is a summary of the Companys special items for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Restructuring charges $ 40.1 $ 47.6 $ 80.3 Acquisition integration charges 101.5 25.4 48.3 Litigation and other 630.4 7.5 12.9 Total special items $ 772.0 $ 80.5 $ 141.5 Fiscal 2007 special items charges primarily related to reserves for litigation settlements ($655 million) and IPRD expenses ($85 million) primarily in connection with the Viasys acquisition. The Company recorded litigation charges and made payment of $655 million during fiscal 2007 related to the settlement of the Cardinal Health federal securities litigation ($600 million), Cardinal Health ERISA litigation ($40 million) and other matters. These charges were offset by $29 million of income related to pharmaceutical manufacturer antitrust litigation. In addition, the Company settled and made payment for the penalty associated with the SEC investigation ($35 million), which was reserved in fiscal 2006 and 2005. These settlements resolve some of the Companys most significant outstanding litigation as well as the SEC investigation. In fiscal 2008, the Company expects to recognize approximately $58 million in proceeds as income from insurance policies upon final settlement of all claims in shareholder derivative actions. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these matters and other outstanding legal proceedings and regulatory matters. 30 Table of Contents During fiscal 2007, the Company recorded $85 million of IPRD charges primarily associated with the Viasys acquisition. The IPRD charges were determined by an independent third party appraisal and represent the estimated fair value of the research and development projects in process at the time of the acquisition. These projects had not yet reached technological feasibility, were deemed to have no alternative use and, accordingly, were immediately charged to operating expense at the acquisition date. Fiscal 2006 and 2005 special items charges primarily related to the Companys restructuring programs, the SEC investigation and Audit Committee internal review, the integration costs of certain acquisitions and settlements received from vitamin antitrust litigation. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details of the Companys special items. Operating Earnings Operating earnings decreased $471 million or 26% during fiscal 2007, which includes increased special items charges ($692 million) and impairment and other charges ($12 million). Operating earnings were favorably impacted by gross margin growth ($431 million) and negatively impacted by increased SGA expenses ($200 million). Operating earnings increased $63 million or 4% during fiscal 2006. Operating earnings were favorably impacted by gross margin growth ($354 million) and the year over year decrease in special items charges ($61 million) and impairment charges and other ($33 million). Fiscal 2006 operating earnings were negatively impacted by increased SGA expenses ($385 million). Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other increased $17 million or 16% during fiscal 2007 primarily due to increased borrowing levels and interest rates. Interest expense and other decreased $13 million during fiscal 2006 primarily due to an increase in investment income ($7 million) and foreign exchange gains ($4 million). Provision for Income Taxes The provisions for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations were 32.9%, 33.2% and 35.9% of pretax earnings in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Generally, fluctuations in the effective tax rate are due to changes within international and U.S. state effective tax rates resulting from the Companys business mix and changes in the tax impact of special items, which may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item and the taxing jurisdiction. The Companys effective tax rate reflects tax benefits derived from increasing operations outside the United States, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. The Company has tax incentive agreements in several non U.S. tax jurisdictions which will expire in fiscal years 2009 through 2024 if not renewed. The Company does not believe that potential changes from existing tax incentive agreements will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. The Companys fiscal 2007 provision for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations was $412.6 million and the effective tax rate was 32.9%. The fiscal 2007 effective tax rate benefited by 0.2 percentage points from equity based compensation expense, which is deductible at a tax rate higher than the average tax rate. The fiscal 2007 effective tax rate was adversely impacted by 0.75 percentage points due to the non deductibility of certain special items and impairments, principally the IPRD charge related to the Viasys acquisition. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal or non U.S. income tax audits by tax authorities for fiscal years ending before June 30, 2001. The years subsequent to fiscal 2000 contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations as it relates to the amount and or timing of income, deductions and tax credits. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) currently has ongoing examinations of open years from 2001 through 2005. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the Company believes that adequate amounts of tax and interest have been provided for any adjustments that are expected to result for these years. While it is not currently possible to predict the impact of settlements or other IRS 31 Table of Contents audit activity on income tax expense or cash flows during the next 12 months, the Company does not expect any significant impact on financial position. During the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the effective tax rate from continuing operations was favorably impacted by a $9.9 million adjustment to the tax reserves primarily due to the issuance of a final IRS Revenue Agent Report that related to fiscal years 2001 and 2002. During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the effective tax rate from continuing operations was negatively impacted by a $7.3 million adjustment to the tax reserves related to an ongoing international tax audit. During the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company entered into an agreement with the IRS to close the fiscal years 1996 through 2000 federal audits. As a result, the Company reversed tax reserves of approximately $8.9 million. The Companys fiscal 2006 provision for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations was $577.1 million and the effective tax rate was 33.2%. The fiscal 2006 effective tax rate was adversely impacted by 0.2 percentage points due to the non deductibility of certain special items. A provision of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA) created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed income earned abroad by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from non U.S. subsidiaries. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company determined that it would repatriate $500 million of accumulated non U.S. earnings in fiscal 2006 pursuant to the repatriation provisions of the AJCA, and accordingly, the Company recorded a related tax liability of $26.3 million as of June 30, 2005. The $500 million is the maximum repatriation available to the Company under the repatriation provisions of the AJCA. During fiscal 2006, the Company repatriated $494 million of qualifying accumulated foreign earnings in accordance with its plan adopted during fiscal 2005. An additional tax liability of $0.4 million was recorded during fiscal 2006 due to new state legislation with respect to the AJCA, bringing the Companys total tax liability related to the repatriation recorded through June 30, 2006 to $26.7 million. Uses of repatriated funds included domestic expenditures related to non executive salaries, capital asset investments and other permitted activities. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Discontinued Operations Earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax increased by $1.3 billion during fiscal 2007 primarily due to the after tax gain on the sale of the PTS Business ($1.1 billion) and impairment charges from prior year ($185 million). See Note 8 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Companys discontinued operations. Segment Results of Operations Reportable Segments The Companys operations are organized into four reportable segments: Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical; Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical; Clinical Technologies and Services; and Medical Products Manufacturing. The Company evaluates the performance of the individual segments based upon, among other things, segment profit. Segment profit is segment revenue less segment cost of products sold, less segment SGA expenses. Segment SGA expense includes equity compensation expense as well as allocated corporate expenses for shared functions, including corporate management, corporate finance, financial shared services, human resources, information technology, legal and legislative affairs and the integrated sales organization. Corporate expenses are allocated to the segments based upon headcount, level of benefit provided and ratable allocation. Information about interest income and expense and income taxes is not provided at the segment level. In addition, special items, impairment charges and other and investment spending are not allocated to the segments. See Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Companys reportable segments. Revenue increased in each of the Companys four reportable segments during fiscal 2007, including double digit growth in the Medical Products Manufacturing (12%) and Clinical Technologies and Services (11%) segments. Segment profit increased in each of the Companys four reportable segments, including double digit 32 Table of Contents growth in the Medical Products Manufacturing (20%), Clinical Technologies and Services (20%) and Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical (14%) segments. The following table summarizes segment revenue for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): Growth(1) Segment Revenue 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical: Revenue from non bulk customers(2) 6 % 2 % $ 42,672.8 $ 40,174.9 $ 39,570.5 Revenue from bulk customers(2) 13 % 24 % 33,900.0 29,872.0 24,084.4 Total Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical 9 % 10 % $ 76,572.8 $ 70,046.9 $ 63,654.9 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical 4 % 6 % 7,513.9 7,198.6 6,823.0 Clinical Technologies and Services 11 % 11 % 2,687.0 2,430.3 2,189.3 Medical Products Manufacturing 12 % 6 % 1,835.9 1,632.9 1,537.0 Total segment revenue 9 % 10 % $ 88,609.6 $ 81,308.7 $ 74,204.2 Corporate(3) N.M. N.M. (1,757.6 ) (1,644.5 ) (1,538.2 ) Consolidated revenue 9 % 10 % $ 86,852.0 $ 79,664.2 $ 72,666.0 (1) Growth is calculated as the percentage change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to the immediately preceding year. (2) Bulk customers consist of customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. Non bulk customers include retail stores, hospitals, alternate care sites and other customers not specifically classified as bulk customers. Most deliveries to bulk customers consist of product shipped in the same form as received from the manufacturer. See discussion below within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical section for the Companys description of revenue from bulk customers. (3) Corporate revenue consists of the elimination of inter segment revenue for all periods presented. The following table summarizes segment profit for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): Growth(1) Segment Profit(2)(3) 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical(4) 14 % (7 )% $ 1,299.8 $ 1,142.6 $ 1,223.6 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical(5) 1 % (14 )% 318.1 314.5 367.5 Clinical Technologies and Services 20 % 35 % 385.7 320.3 238.1 Medical Products Manufacturing(4) 20 % (6 )% 197.6 164.5 175.7 Total segment profit 13 % (3 )% $ 2,201.2 $ 1,941.9 $ 2,004.9 Corporate(6) N.M. N.M. (827.5 ) (97.0 ) (222.7 ) Consolidated operating earnings (26 )% 4 % $ 1,373.7 $ 1,844.9 $ 1,782.2 (1) Growth is calculated as the percentage change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to the immediately preceding year. (2) A portion of the corporate costs previously allocated to the former Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment have been reclassified to the remaining four segments based upon each segments respective 33 Table of Contents proportion of allocated corporate expenses. In addition, equity based compensation has been allocated to the segments based upon the forecasted equity based compensation expense for the respective segment plus one fourth of the forecasted corporate equity based compensation expense. Prior period information has been adjusted to reflect these changes in methodology. (3) Equity based compensation expense was $138 million, $208 million and $9 million, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. (4) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment recorded a charge reflecting credits owed to certain vendors ($32 million) for prior periods. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, an adjustment ($4 million) was recorded to reduce a portion of the reserve based upon a revised estimate. (5) During the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company revised the method used to allocate certain shared costs between the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment and the Medical Products Manufacturing segment to better align costs with the segment that receives the related benefits. Prior period information has been adjusted to reflect this change in methodology. (6) For fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, corporate operating earnings include special items, impairment charges and other and certain other Corporate investment spending described below: Special items Corporate operating earnings include special items of $772 million, $81 million and $142 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively (see Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of special items). Impairment charges and other See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of impairment charges and other. Investment spending The Company has encouraged its business units to identify investment projects which will provide future returns. These projects typically require incremental strategic investments in the form of additional capital or operating expenses. As approval decisions for such projects are dependent upon Corporate management, the expenses for such projects are retained at the Corporate segment. Investment spending for fiscal years, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $22 million, $19 million and $18 million, respectively. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical Performance During fiscal 2007, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment revenue increased $6.5 billion or 9% primarily from revenue from bulk customers. Segment profit increased $157 million due to revenue growth, increased generic pharmaceutical margin and increased distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation, offset by increased customer discounts and increased SGA expenses. The pharmaceutical distribution market remains highly competitive and the Company expects that customer discounts will continue to increase. However, the Company expects that increased manufacturer cash discounts and distribution service agreement fees, both of which increase with revenue growth, combined with increased generic margin and continued pharmaceutical price appreciation will enable the Company to offset increased customer discounts. The Companys results could be adversely affected if sales of pharmaceutical products decline, the frequency of new generic pharmaceutical launches decreases or pharmaceutical price appreciation decreases from its historical rate. Alternatively, the Companys results could benefit if sales of pharmaceutical products increase, the frequency of new generic pharmaceutical launches increases or pharmaceutical price appreciation exceeds its historical rate. Revenue from bulk customers, described below, increased $4.0 billion during fiscal 2007 with additional volume from existing customers ($2.7 billion) and new customers ($1.3 billion). Revenue from non bulk customers increased $2.5 billion. Growth in revenue from non bulk customers was driven by additional sales volume from existing customers and pharmaceutical price appreciation ($4.0 billion). The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 6.3% for fiscal 2007. Acquisitions ($1.2 billion), mainly Dohmen and ParMed, also had a favorable impact on the year over year revenue comparison. Negatively impacting growth in revenue from non bulk customers was the loss of existing customers due to competition ($1.0 billion) and the sale of a significant part of the specialty distribution business ($1.7 billion) in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. 34 Table of Contents Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment profit increased $157 million or 14% in fiscal 2007. Gross margin increased segment profit by $202 million primarily due to the segments revenue growth and increased generic pharmaceutical margin ($192 million) due to new product launches and competitive vendor pricing. Gross margin also was favorably impacted by increased manufacturer cash discounts due to sales volume growth ($187 million) and distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $171 million). Gross margin was negatively impacted by increased customer discounts ($319 million) due to increased sales volume and competitive pressures. The Company expects continued customer discounting due to the competitive market in which it operates. Increases in segment SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by approximately $45 million for fiscal 2007. Increases in SGA expenses were in support of the increased sales volume and due to the impact of acquisitions ($37 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($14 million). Segment profit was negatively impacted by the prior year sale of a significant portion of the specialty distribution business ($43 million). The Company estimates that branded pharmaceuticals with industry wide sales volume domestically of $21.8 billion and $4.4 billion came off of patent protection during fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively, which allowed for generic pharmaceutical competition. The Companys estimate of industry wide branded pharmaceutical sales volume is internally developed using industry sales data for significant branded pharmaceuticals adapted for the Companys fiscal period. Generic pharmaceuticals negatively impact revenue because they are offered at lower prices than branded pharmaceuticals; however, generic pharmaceuticals positively impact gross margin and operating earnings due to competitive vendor pricing. The Company generally earns the highest margins on generic pharmaceuticals during the period immediately following the initial launch of a generic product to the marketplace because generic pharmaceutical selling prices are generally deflationary. The Company expects a similar level of branded pharmaceuticals will come off of patent protection during fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007. During fiscal 2006, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment revenue increased $6.4 billion or 10%. Revenue from bulk customers increased $5.8 billion. Centralized warehouse and mail order customers contributed $5.0 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, of the bulk customer revenue growth. The additional sales volume was due in significant part to certain existing warehouse customers deciding to purchase from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer. Revenue from non bulk customers increased $604 million based upon pharmaceutical price appreciation and additional sales volume from new and existing customers. Revenue growth was negatively impacted as a result of the decision of the specialty distribution businesss largest customer to begin self distribution on January 1, 2006 and the sale of a significant portion of the specialty distribution business in the fourth quarter ($190 million). The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 5.6% for fiscal 2006. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment profit decreased $81 million or 7% in fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $70 million due primarily to the segments revenue growth and increased manufacturer cash discounts ($139 million) due to increased sales within the pharmaceutical supply chain business. In addition, gross margin was favorably impacted by distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $134 million). Other factors favorably impacting gross margin included generic pharmaceuticals ($32 million) due to sales growth, competitive vendor pricing, the introduction of new generic pharmaceuticals within the pharmaceutical supply chain business, the addition of new vendors to the segments National Logistics Center ($27 million) and a last in, first out (LIFO) reserve reduction ($26 million) primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories. Increased customer discounts within the pharmaceutical supply chain business negatively impacted segment profit by $232 million due to increased sales volume and competitive pressures. Segment profit was also negatively impacted by an adjustment ($32 million), as described in detail below. Increases in segment SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by approximately $151 million for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005. Increases in these expenses were in support of the increased sales volume and increased equity based compensation expense ($67 million) due primarily to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). As noted above, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment profit was negatively impacted by an adjustment recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The Company discovered it had inadvertently and 35 Table of Contents erroneously failed to process credits owed to a vendor in prior years. After a thorough review, the Company determined it had failed to process similar credits for a limited number of additional vendors. These processing failures, specific to a limited area of vendor credits, resulted from system programming, interface and data entry errors relating to these vendor credits which occurred over a period of years. As a result, the Company recorded a charge ($32 million) in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting its estimate of the credits owed to these vendors. Bulk and Non Bulk Customers. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment differentiates between bulk and non bulk customers because bulk customers generate significantly lower segment profit as a percentage of revenue than non bulk customers. Bulk customers consist of customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. All other customers are classified as non bulk customers (for example, retail stores, pharmacies, hospitals and alternate care sites). Bulk customers include the warehouse operations of retail chains whose retail stores are classified as non bulk customers. For example, a single retail chain pharmacy customer may be both a bulk customer with respect to its warehouse operations and a non bulk customer with respect to its retail stores. Bulk customers have the ability to process large quantities of products in central locations and self distribute these products to their individual retail stores or customers. Substantially all deliveries to bulk customers consist of product shipped in the same form as the product is received from the manufacturer, but a small portion of deliveries to bulk customers are broken down into smaller units prior to shipping. Non bulk customers, on the other hand, require more complex servicing by the Company. These services, all of which are performed by the Company, include receiving inventory in large or full case quantities and breaking it down into smaller quantities, warehousing the product for a longer period of time, picking individual products specific to a customers order and delivering that smaller order to a customer location. The Company tracks revenue by bulk and non bulk customers in its financial systems. To assist the Company in managing its business, an internal analysis has been prepared to allocate segment expenses (total of segment cost of products sold and segment selling, general and administrative expenses) separately for bulk and non bulk customers. The following table shows the allocation of segment expenses, segment profit and segment profit as a percentage of revenue for bulk and non bulk customers for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Non bulk customers: Revenue from non bulk customers $ 42,673 $ 40,175 $ 39,571 Segment expenses allocated to non bulk customers(1)(2) 41,565 39,215 38,475 Segment profit from non bulk customers(1)(2) 1,108 960 1,096 Segment profit from non bulk customers as a percentage of revenue from non bulk customers(1)(2) 2.6 % 2.4 % 2.8 % Bulk customers: Revenue from bulk customers $ 33,900 $ 29,872 $ 24,084 Segment expenses allocated to bulk customers(1)(2) 33,709 29,716 23,988 Segment profit from bulk customers(1)(2) 191 156 96 Segment profit from bulk customers as a percentage of revenue from bulk customers(1)(2) 0.6 % 0.5 % 0.4 % (1) Amounts shown are estimates based upon the internal analysis described above. The preparation of this internal analysis required the use of complex and subjective estimates and allocations based upon assumptions, past experience and judgment that the Company believes are reasonable. The core pharmaceutical distribution operation (Distribution) within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment services both bulk and non bulk customers. Therefore, expenses associated with this operation were allocated between bulk and non bulk customers as described below. The brokerage operation (Brokerage) within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment only services bulk customers, therefore, expenses associated with Brokerage are allocated to bulk customers. The remaining operations (i.e. excluding Distribution and Brokerage) within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment service non bulk customers, therefore, expenses associated with these operations were allocated to non bulk customers. 36 Table of Contents The following describes the allocation of the major components of cost of products sold for Distribution between bulk and non bulk customers: Cost of products sold for pharmaceutical products is determined by specifically tracking the manufacturers designated price of products, at the time the products are sold, by bulk and non bulk customers. The manufacturers designated price is then reduced by other components impacting cost of products sold, including distribution service agreement fees, pharmaceutical price appreciation, manufacturer cash discounts and manufacturer rebates and incentives. In addition, other inventory charges and credits are added or subtracted, as appropriate, to arrive at cost of products sold. The Company used the following methods that it believes provide a reasonable correlation to allocate the remaining components of cost of products sold between bulk and non bulk customers. Distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation are tracked by manufacturer. Therefore, the Company allocated the distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation associated with each manufacturer among their products in proportion to sales of each product between bulk and non bulk customers. Manufacturer cash discounts are recognized as a reduction to cost of products sold when the related inventory is sold and were allocated in proportion to the manufacturers published price of the product sold to bulk and non bulk customers. Manufacturers rebates and incentives are based on the individual agreements entered into with manufacturers related to specific products. Rebates and incentives were grouped by contract terms and then allocated in proportion to sales to bulk and non bulk customers. Other inventory charges and credits include charges for outdated and returned inventory items and fluctuation in inventory reserves. The Company estimated the portion of these inventory charges and credits attributable to each product and then allocated them to bulk and non bulk customers in proportion to the sales of these products. The Company used methods that it believes provide a reasonable correlation to allocate the selling, general and administrative expenses for Distribution between bulk and non bulk customers as follows: Warehouse expense includes labor related expenses associated with receiving, shipping and handling the inventory as well as warehouse storage costs including insurance, taxes, supplies and other facility costs. Warehouse expense was allocated in proportion to the number of invoice line items filled for each bulk or non bulk customer because the Company believes that there is a correlation between the number of different products ordered as reflected in invoice lines and the level of effort associated with receiving, shipping and handling that order (bulk customers typically order larger quantities of products for each invoice line); Delivery expense includes transportation costs associated with physically moving the product from the warehouse to the customers designated location. Delivery expense was allocated in proportion to the number of invoices generated for each bulk or non bulk customer on the assumption that each invoice generates a delivery; Sales expense includes personnel related costs associated with sales and customer service activities (such activities are the same for both bulk and non bulk customers). Sales expense was allocated in proportion to the number of invoices generated for each bulk or non bulk customer because customer invoices are a reasonable estimate of the amount of customer service calls and sales effort; and General and administrative expenses were allocated in proportion to the units of products sold to bulk or non bulk customers. These expenses were allocated on the assumption that general and administrative expenses increase or decrease in direct relation to the volume of sales. (2) Amounts exclude LIFO credit provisions of $0, $26 million and $32 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The internal analysis indicated segment expenses as a percentage of revenue were higher for bulk customers than for non bulk customers because of higher segment cost of products sold partially offset by lower segment SGA expenses. Bulk customers receive lower pricing on sales of the same products than non bulk customers due to volume pricing in a competitive market and the lower costs related to the services provided by the Company. In 37 Table of Contents addition, sales to bulk customers in aggregate generate higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue than sales to non bulk customers because bulk customers orders consist almost entirely of higher cost branded products. The higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue for bulk customers is also driven by lower manufacturer distribution service agreement fees and branded pharmaceutical price appreciation and lower manufacturer cash discounts. Manufacturer distribution service agreement fees and manufacturer cash discounts are recognized as a reduction to segment cost of products sold and are lower as a percentage of revenue due to the mix of products sold. Pharmaceutical price appreciation increases customer pricing which, in turn, results in higher segment gross margin for sales of inventory that was on hand at the time of the manufacturers price increase. Since products sold to bulk customers are generally held in inventory for a shorter time than products sold to non bulk customers, there is less opportunity to realize the benefit of pharmaceutical price appreciation. Consequently, segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue for bulk customers is higher than for non bulk customers and segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue is substantially lower for bulk customers than for non bulk customers. Deliveries to bulk customers require substantially less services by the Company than deliveries to non bulk customers. As such, the segment SGA expenses as a percentage of revenue from bulk customers are substantially lower than from non bulk customers. These factors result in segment profit as a percentage of revenue being significantly lower for bulk customers than for non bulk customers. The Company defines bulk customers based on the way in which the Company operates its business and the services it performs for its customers. The Company is not aware of an industry standard regarding the definition of bulk customers and based solely on a review of the Annual Reports on Form 10 K of other national pharmaceutical wholesalers, the Company notes that other companies in comparable businesses may, or may not, use a different definition of bulk customers. During fiscal 2007, segment profit from bulk customers increased $35 million, or 0.1% of revenue from bulk customers, due to increased sales volume described above and the year over year increase in distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation. Segment profit for non bulk customers increased $148 million, or 0.2% of revenue from non bulk customers, compared to fiscal 2006. This increase in segment profit from non bulk customers was due primarily to the increase in sales volume described above and the impact of generic products which had a greater impact on the profitability of non bulk customers due to the mix of pharmaceuticals distributed to non bulk customers. Fiscal 2006 segment profit from bulk customers increased $60 million, or 0.1% of revenue from bulk customers, due to increased sales volume described above and the year over year impact of new distribution service agreements and pharmaceutical price appreciation. The favorable impact of distribution service agreements and of pharmaceutical price appreciation had a greater impact on the profitability of bulk customers than on non bulk customers in fiscal 2006 due to the mix of branded pharmaceuticals distributed to bulk customers. These positive factors were partially offset by an increase in allocated equity based compensation expense of $10 million due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The fiscal 2006 segment profit for non bulk customers declined $136 million, or 0.4% of revenue from non bulk customers, compared to fiscal 2005. An increase in segment profit from non bulk customers due to increased sales and new distribution service agreements was offset by increased customer discounts, an increase in segment SGA expenses (which was largely due to sales growth and an increase in allocated equity based compensation expense of $57 million due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)), and a $32 million charge during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting credits owed to vendors. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical Performance During fiscal 2007, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment revenue increased $315 million while segment profit remained relatively flat. The Company remains focused on improving operating performance within this segment through continued investment in customer service and restructuring the business. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company announced its plan to combine the headquarters of the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical and Medical segments in order to promote sharing best practices and support functions to provide better service for its customers. Refer to Other Matters Global Restructuring Program below for further discussion of the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical restructuring program. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment revenue growth of $315 million or 4% during fiscal 2007 resulted primarily from increased volume from existing customers ($215 million) and new customer accounts ($100 million). Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment profit increased $4 million or 1% during 38 Table of Contents fiscal 2007. Gross margin increased segment profit by $27 million primarily as a result of revenue growth and the impact of increased manufacturer cash discounts ($6 million). Negatively impacting gross margin were increased customer discounts ($5 million) and trade receivable reserves ($7 million) related to the segments customer service and shared service transition. Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $23 million primarily in support of revenue growth and increased transportation costs ($5 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($14 million). During fiscal 2006, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment revenue growth of $376 million or 6% resulted primarily from increased volume from existing customers ($244 million) and new customer accounts ($115 million). Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment profit decreased $53 million or 14% during fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $53 million as a result of revenue growth and the favorable impact of the mix of private label and branded products ($9 million) due to emphasis being placed on selling Company branded products and other focused product categories and new products with higher margins ($4 million). Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $106 million in support of revenue growth and an increase in equity based compensation expense ($45 million) due primarily to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). Clinical Technologies and Services Performance During fiscal 2007, Clinical Technologies and Services segment revenue grew $257 million or 11%. Revenue growth was favorably impacted by new products ($119 million), increased sales volumes to existing customers ($90 million) due to renewals and expansion of product lines and new customers ($35 million). Acquisitions also favorably impacted the year over year comparison ($18 million). Clinical Technologies and Services segment profit increased $65 million or 20%. Gross margin increased segment profit by $132 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Gross margin was negatively impacted by the estimated costs of the Alaris SE pump corrective action plan and related consulting expenses ($18 million) due to the product recall. Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $67 million in support of the revenue growth and as a result of the impact of acquisitions ($22 million) and increased investment in product quality and research and development costs ($11 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($14 million). During fiscal 2006, Clinical Technologies and Services segment revenue growth of $241 million or 11% resulted primarily from revenue growth within the Pyxis and Alaris product lines. Pyxis products revenue increased $83 million due to higher unit sales resulting from increased demand for the Medstation 3000 product and improvements within the sales and installation cycles. Alaris products revenue increased $125 million due to competitive displacements driven by technological advantages and sales obtained through the Companys other relationships. These revenue increases were tempered by slower revenue growth in the clinical and consulting services ($52 million). Clinical Technologies and Services segment profit increased $82 million or 35% during fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $180 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included sales mix ($49 million) and manufacturing efficiencies ($12 million) driven by higher sales volume. Also favorably impacting the year over year comparison were the inventory valuation adjustments to fair value from the Alaris acquisition ($24 million) with the adjusted higher value inventory being sold during the first two quarters of fiscal 2005. Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $97 million due primarily to an increase in equity based compensation expense ($55 million) due primarily to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) and in support of the revenue growth. Estimated integration synergies from the Alaris acquisition ($54 million) favorably impacted both gross margin and SGA expenses. Medical Products Manufacturing Performance During fiscal 2007, Medical Products Manufacturing segment revenue grew $203 million or 12%. Revenue growth was favorably impacted by increased sales volume ($74 million) from existing customers and new customers won through new GPO contracts and competitor exits. Revenue growth was also favorably impacted by new product launches ($50 million), including innovations in gloves, respiratory products, surgical instruments and software, and international revenue growth ($62 million), which includes the impact of foreign exchange ($18 million). Acquisitions, including Denver Biomedical and Viasys, favorably impacted the year over year 39 Table of Contents comparison ($37 million). Due to the acquisition of Viasys, the Company expects significant growth in the Medical Products Manufacturing segment. Medical Products Manufacturing segment profit increased $33 million or 20% during fiscal 2007. Gross margin increased segment profit by $72 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included manufacturing cost reductions ($20 million) driven by strategic sourcing and expense control related to the Companys restructuring program and the integration of acquisitions ($21 million), primarily Denver Biomedical. Increases in SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by $39 million primarily in support of the segments revenue growth and from the impact of acquisitions ($13 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($12 million). During fiscal 2006, Medical Products Manufacturing segment revenue grew $96 million or 6% resulting from revenue growth from manufactured gloves and respiratory product lines ($45 million) due to new customer accounts ($14 million) and new products ($31 million) and international revenue growth ($16 million) from new customers. Medical Products Manufacturing segment profit decreased $11 million or 6% during fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $31 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included manufacturing cost reductions driven by cost controls ($30 million) and expense control partially related to the Companys global restructuring program ($12 million). Increased raw materials costs ($25 million) negatively impacted gross margin. Increases in SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by $42 million primarily due to the increase in equity based compensation ($41 million) and in support of the segments revenue growth. The latex litigation charge ($28 million) recorded during fiscal 2005 also favorably impacted the year over year comparison. Other Matters Acquisitions During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company acquired Viasys, which offered products and services directed at critical care ventilation, respiratory diagnostics and clinical services, neurological, vascular, audio, homecare, orthopedics, sleep diagnostics and other medical and surgical products markets. The value of the transaction, including the assumption of Viasyss debt, totaled approximately $1.5 billion. In addition, during fiscal 2007, the Company completed other acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these other acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $165 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $22 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations from the date of acquisition. Had the transactions, including Viasys, occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2006, consolidated results of operations would not have differed materially from reported results. For further information regarding the Companys acquisitions see Item 1 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. During fiscal 2006, the Company completed acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $364 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $149 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations from the date of acquisition. Had the transactions occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2005, consolidated results of operations would not have differed materially. During fiscal 2005, the Company completed acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $107 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $27 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations from the date of acquisition. Had the transactions occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2004, consolidated results of operations would not have differed materially. The Companys trend with regard to acquisitions has been to expand its role as a provider of services and innovative products to the healthcare industry. This trend has resulted in expansion into areas that complement the Companys existing operations and provide opportunities for the Company to develop synergies with, and strengthen, the acquired business. As the healthcare industry continues to change, the Company evaluates possible 40 Table of Contents candidates for acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry through all its reportable segments. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to successfully take advantage of any such opportunity if and when it arises or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are pursued or consummated, the Company would incur additional acquisition integration charges, and may need to enter into funding arrangements for such acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful. Sale of the PTS Business On April 10, 2007, the Company completed the sale of the PTS Business to Phoenix Charter LLC (Phoenix), an affiliate of The Blackstone Group, pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement between the Company and Phoenix, dated as of January 25, 2007 as amended (the Purchase Agreement). At the closing of the sale, the Company received approximately $3.2 billion in cash from Phoenix, which was the purchase price of approximately $3.3 billion as adjusted pursuant to certain provisions in the Purchase Agreement for the working capital, cash, indebtedness and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of the PTS Business. The Company recognized an after tax book gain of approximately $1.1 billion from this transaction. The Company used the after tax net proceeds of approximately $3.1 billion from the sale to repurchase shares. The Purchase Agreement contained customary indemnification provisions for sale transactions of this type. Global Restructuring Program During fiscal 2005, the Company launched a global restructuring program with a goal of increasing the value that the Company provides its customers through better integration of existing businesses and improved efficiency from a more disciplined approach to procurement and resource allocation. On April 30, 2007, the Company announced a third phase of its global restructuring program to move the headquarters of the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment and certain corporate functions from Waukegan, Illinois to the Companys corporate headquarters in Dublin, Ohio. The Company expects this third phase to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2009. See the Companys Form 8 K filed on April 30, 2007 for additional information. Adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) applying the modified prospective method. SFAS No. 123(R) requires all equity based payments to employees, including grants of employee options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for equity based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations, and equity based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure within the notes to the financial statements. In anticipation of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company did not modify the terms of any previously granted options. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Business Model Transition Historically, a significant portion of the pharmaceutical supply chain business gross margin was derived from the Companys ability to purchase pharmaceutical inventory, hold that inventory when a manufacturer increased prices, and sell that product at the higher price. Beginning in fiscal 2003, branded pharmaceutical manufacturers began to seek greater control over the amount of product available in the supply chain and, as a result, began to change their sales practices by restricting the volume of product available for purchase by wholesalers. In addition, manufacturers sought additional services from the Company, including providing data concerning product sales and distribution patterns. The Company believes that manufacturers sought these changes to provide them with greater visibility over product demand and movement in the market and to increase product safety and integrity by reducing the risks associated with product being available to, and distributed in, the secondary market. These changes significantly reduced the pharmaceutical price appreciation earned by the Company. 41 Table of Contents In response to these developments, the Company established a compensation system with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers that is significantly less dependent on manufacturers pricing practices, and is based on the services provided by the Company to meet the unique distribution requirements of each manufacturers products. During fiscal 2005, the Company worked with individual branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to define fee for service terms that compensate the Company based on the services being provided to such manufacturers. This transition was completed during fiscal 2006. These new arrangements have moderated the seasonality of earnings which have historically reflected the pattern of manufacturers price increases. Under the fee for service arrangements, reflected in written distribution service agreements, the Companys compensation for these services may be a fee or a fee plus pharmaceutical price appreciation. In certain instances, the Company must achieve certain performance criteria to receive the maximum fees under the agreement. The fee is typically a fixed percentage of either the Companys purchases from the manufacturer or the Companys sales of the manufacturers products to its customers. The Company continues to generate gross margin from the sale of some manufacturers products from pharmaceutical price appreciation without receiving distribution service agreement fees. If the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price appreciation slows, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Distribution service agreements between the Company and certain branded pharmaceutical manufacturers generally range from a one year term with an automatic renewal feature to a five year term. These agreements generally cannot be terminated unless mutually agreed by the parties, a breach of the agreement occurs that is not cured, or a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event occurs. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate the agreement without cause within a defined notice period. Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that can have a significant impact on the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and require use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Other companies applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing the Companys consolidated financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Allowance for doubtful accounts Trade receivables are amounts owed to the Company through its operating activities and are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company also provides financing to various customers. Such financing arrangements range from ninety days to ten years at interest rates that generally are subject to fluctuation. These financings may be collateralized, guaranteed by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivables are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and are included in other assets. Extending credit terms and calculating the required allowance for doubtful accounts involve the use of judgment by the Companys management. In determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, which includes portfolio and specific reserves, the Company reviews accounts receivable aging, industry trends, customer financial strength, credit standing, historical write off trends and payment history to assess the probability of collection. The Company continuously monitors the collectibility of its receivable portfolio by analyzing the aging of its accounts receivable, assessing credit worthiness of its customers and evaluating the impact of changes in economic conditions that may impact credit risks. If the frequency or severity of customer defaults change due to changes in customers financial condition or general economic conditions, the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts may require adjustment. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $128.9 million and $126.4 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This allowance represented 2.2% and 2.6% of customer receivables at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of revenue was 0.15%, 0.16% and 0.16% at June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts was reduced by $28.4 million, 42 Table of Contents $22.6 million and $21.2 million in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, for customer deductions and write offs and was increased by additional provisions of $24.0 million, $24.6 million and $7.7 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A hypothetical 0.1% increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables and sales type leases to the reserve at June 30, 2007 would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $5.9 million. Reserve methodologies are assessed annually based on historical losses and economic, business and market trends. In addition, reserves are reviewed quarterly and updated if unusual circumstances or trends are present. The Company believes the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal 2007 are appropriate and consistent with historical methodologies employed. At this time, the Company is not aware of any internal process or customer issues that might lead to a significant future increase in the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net revenue. See Schedule II included in this Form 10 K which includes a rollforward of activity for these allowance reserves. Inventories A substantial portion of inventories (approximately 73% and 75% at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively) are stated at the lower of cost, using the LIFO method, or market. These inventories are included within the core distribution facilities within the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment (core distribution facilities) and are primarily merchandise inventories. The LIFO impact on the consolidated statement of earnings in a given year is dependent on pharmaceutical price appreciation and the level of inventory. Prices for branded pharmaceuticals are primarily inflationary, which results in an increase in cost of products sold, whereas prices for generic pharmaceuticals are deflationary, which results in a decrease in cost of products sold. Under the LIFO method, it is assumed that the most recent inventory purchases are the first items sold. As such, the Company uses LIFO to better match current costs and revenue. Therefore, reductions in the overall inventory levels resulting from declining branded pharmaceutical inventory levels generally will result in a decrease in future cost of products sold, as the remaining inventory will be held at a lower cost due to the inflationary environment. Conversely, reductions in the overall inventory levels created by declining generic pharmaceutical inventory levels would generally increase future cost of products sold, as the remaining inventory will be held at a higher cost due to the deflationary environment. The Company believes that the average cost method of inventory valuation provides a reasonable approximation of the current cost of replacing inventory within the core distribution facilities. As such, the LIFO reserve is the difference between (a) inventory at the lower of LIFO cost or market and (b) inventory at replacement cost determined using the average cost method of inventory valuation. In fiscal 2007, the Company did not record any LIFO reserve reductions. The LIFO reserve reduction in fiscal 2006 of $26.0 million was primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories. The remaining inventory is primarily stated at the lower of cost, using the first in, first out (FIFO) method, or market. If the Company had used the average cost method of inventory valuation for all inventory within the core distribution facilities, inventories would not have changed in fiscal 2007 or fiscal 2006. In fact, primarily due to continued deflation in generic pharmaceutical inventories, inventories at LIFO were $55.8 million and $1.0 million higher than the average cost value as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. However, the Companys policy is not to record inventories in excess of its current market value. Inventories recorded on the Companys consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory which were $95.8 million and $112.2 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company reserves for inventory obsolescence using estimates based on historical experiences, sales trends, specific categories of inventory and age of on hand inventory. If actual conditions are less favorable than the Companys assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required, however these would not be expected to have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Business Combinations Assumptions and estimates are used in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of the Companys acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets which require management to use significant judgment in determining fair value. The Company typically utilizes third party valuation experts for this process. In addition, current and future amortization expense 43 Table of Contents for such intangibles is impacted by purchase price allocations as well as the assessment of estimated useful lives of such intangibles, excluding goodwill. The Company believes the assets recorded and the useful lives established are appropriate based upon current facts and circumstances. In conjunction with the review of a transaction, the valuation experts assess the status of the acquired companys research and development projects to determine the existence of IPRD. In connection with the acquisitions of Viasys and Care Fusion, the Company was required to estimate the fair value of acquired IPRD which required selecting an appropriate discount rate and estimating future cash flows for each project. Management also assessed the current status of development, nature and timing of efforts to complete such development, uncertainties and other factors when estimating the fair value. Costs were not assigned to IPRD unless future development was probable. Once the fair value was determined, an asset was established, and in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method, was immediately written off as a special item in the Companys consolidated statement of earnings. The Company recorded $83.9 million and $0.6 million as a special item in fiscal 2007 representing an estimate of Viasyss and Care Fusions acquired IPRD, respectively (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Goodwill and Other Intangibles The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Under SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily customer relationships and patents and trademarks, continue to be amortized over their useful lives. In conducting the impairment test, the fair value of the Companys reporting units is compared to its carrying amount including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, further analysis is performed to assess impairment. The Companys determination of fair value of the reporting units is based on a discounted cash flow analysis or a review of the price/earnings ratio for publicly traded companies similar in nature, scope and size. The methods and assumptions used to test impairment have been revised for the segment realignment for the periods presented. The discount rate used for impairment testing is based on the risk free rate plus an adjustment for risk factors. The use of alternative estimates, peer groups or changes in the industry, or adjusting the discount rate used could affect the estimated fair value of the assets and potentially result in impairment. Any identified impairment would result in an adjustment to the Companys results of operations. The Company performed its annual impairment tests in fiscal 2007 and 2006, neither of which resulted in the recognition of any impairment charges. Decreasing the price/earnings ratio of competitors used for impairment testing by one point or increasing the discount rate in the discounted cash flow analysis used for impairment testing by 1% would not have indicated impairment for any of the Companys reporting units for fiscal 2007 or 2006. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill and other intangibles. Special Items The Company records restructuring charges, acquisition integration charges and certain litigation and other items as special items. A restructuring activity is a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. Under this Statement, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred. Acquisition integration charges include costs to integrate acquired companies. Upon acquisition, certain integration charges are included within the purchase price allocation in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, and other integration charges are recorded as special items as incurred. 44 Table of Contents Certain litigation recorded in special items consists of settlements of significant lawsuits that are infrequent, non recurring or unusual in nature. The Company also classified legal fees and document preservation and production costs incurred in connection with the SEC investigation and the Audit Committee internal review and related matters as special items. The majority of the special items related to acquisition integration and restructurings can be classified in one of the following categories: employee related costs, exit costs (including lease termination costs), asset impairments and other integration costs. Employee costs include severance and termination benefits. Lease termination costs include lease cancellation fees, forfeited deposits and remaining payments due under existing lease agreements less estimated sublease income. Other facility exit costs include costs to move equipment or inventory out of a facility as well as other costs incurred to shut down a facility. Asset impairment costs include the reduction in value of the Companys assets as a result of the integration or restructuring activities. Other integration costs primarily include charges directly related to the integration plan such as consulting costs related to information systems and employee benefit plans as well as relocation and travel costs directly associated with the integration plan. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Vendor Reserves The Company maintains reserves to cover areas of exposure with its vendors. In determining appropriate vendor reserves, the Company assesses historical experience and current outstanding claims. The Company has established various levels of reserves based on the type of claim and status of review. The Company researches and resolves various types of contested transactions based on discussions with vendors, Company policy and findings of research performed. Though the transaction types are relatively consistent, the Company has periodically refined its estimate methodology over the past few years by updating the reserve estimate percentages based upon historical experiences. Changes to the estimate percentages have resulted in a financial impact to the Companys cost of products sold in the period in which the change was made. Vendor reserves were $72.6 million and $112.4 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Approximately 61% and 73% of the vendor reserve at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, pertained to the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. Fluctuations in the reserve balance are caused by the variations of outstanding claims from period to period, timing of settlements and specific vendor issues, such as bankruptcies (significant events would be described above in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Though vendor transactions remain relatively consistent from period to period, unforeseen events such as the deterioration in the financial condition of a large vendor or a settlement of numerous outstanding claims could cause the reserve to fluctuate, and thus, have a financial impact on the periods financial results. At any given time, there are outstanding items in various stages of research and resolution. The ultimate outcome of certain claims may be different than the Companys original estimate and may require adjustment. However, the Company believes reserves recorded for such disputes are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. Self Insurance Accruals The Company is self insured for employee medical and dental insurance programs. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $24.3 million and $24.1 million for estimated costs related to outstanding claims at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, administrative fees and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. These estimates are based on the Companys assessment of outstanding claims, historical analysis and current payment trends. The Company records an estimate for the claims incurred but not reported using an estimated lag period. This lag period assumption has been consistently applied for the periods presented. If the lag period was hypothetically adjusted by a period equal to a half month, the impact on earnings would be $6.0 million. If the amount of claims, medical or dental costs increase beyond what was estimated, the reserve might not be sufficient and additional expense could be required. However, the Company believes the liabilities recorded are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. 45 Table of Contents Medical and dental insurance expense was $174.6 million, $140.5 million and $140.4 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Through a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, the Company has certain deductibles or is self insured for various risks including general liability, product liability, pharmacist professional liability, auto liability, property and workers compensation. However, claims in excess of certain limits are insured with commercial insurers. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $82.2 million and $76.3 million for anticipated costs related to liability, property and workers compensation at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, defense costs, claims adjustment costs and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. For certain types of exposures the Company uses third parties to assist in developing the estimate of expected ultimate costs to settle each claim which is based on specific information related to each claim. For claims incurred but not reported the liabilities are calculated by outside actuaries and are derived in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practices. The amount of ultimate liability in respect to these matters is dependent on future contingent events that cannot be predicted with certainty and may differ from these estimates. Although the Company believes that liability estimates are appropriate based on information available at June 30, 2007, it is possible, based on generally accepted actuarial analysis, that under adverse conditions the ultimate liability could exceed recorded expected liabilities as of June 30, 2007 by as much as $4.9 million. The insurance expense for general liability, product liability, pharmacist professional liability, auto liability, property and workers compensation was $70.4 million, $71.3 million and $66.5 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and income tax reserves reflect managements assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the financial statements. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards for tax purposes. The Company had net deferred income tax assets of $394.2 million and $461.1 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company also had net deferred income tax liabilities of $1.7 billion at June 30, 2007 and 2006. Net deferred income tax assets included net federal, state and local, and international loss and credit carry forwards at June 30, 2007 and 2006 of $178.2 million and $84.9 million, respectively. The Company established a net valuation allowance of $180.5 million and $34.4 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, against certain deferred tax assets, which primarily relates to federal and state loss carryforwards for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. The Company established a $127.1 million valuation allowance in fiscal 2007 related to capital loss carryforwards resulting from the PTS Business divestiture for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. Expiring carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted annually. After application of the valuation allowances described above, the Company anticipates no limitations will apply with respect to utilization of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described above. In addition, the Company has established an estimated liability for federal, state and non U.S. income tax exposures that arise and meet the criteria for accrual under SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company prepares and files tax returns based on its interpretation of tax laws and regulations and records estimates based on these judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business, the Companys tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation, regulation and or as concluded through the various jurisdictions tax court systems. The Company has developed a methodology for estimating its tax liability related to such matters and has consistently followed such methodology from period to period. The liability amounts for such matters are based on an evaluation of the underlying facts and circumstances, a thorough research of the technical merits of the Companys arguments and an assessment of the probability of the Company prevailing in its arguments. In all cases, the Company considers previous findings of the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company generally consults with external tax advisers in reaching its conclusions. Amounts accrued for a particular period are adjusted when a significant change in facts or circumstances has occurred. 46 Table of Contents The Company believes that its estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and tax contingency reserves are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop a different estimate and the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued. In addition to income mix from geographical regions, the significant assumptions and estimates described in the preceding paragraphs are important contributors to the ultimate effective tax rate in each year. Although not material to the effective tax rate for the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, if any of the Companys assumptions or estimates were to change, an increase/decrease in the Companys effective tax rate by 1% on earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations would have caused income tax expense to increase/decrease by $12.5 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company is required to adopt the provisions of FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. This standard also provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. This interpretation also provides guidance on measurement, derecognizing, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The Company is currently assessing the impact of FIN No. 48 on its consolidated financial statements. Loss Contingencies The Company accrues for contingencies related to litigation in accordance with SFAS No. 5, which requires the Company to assess contingencies to determine degree of probability and range of possible settlement. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in the Companys consolidated financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the settlement can be reasonably estimated. Assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. The Company regularly reviews contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of ultimate settlement may differ from these estimates. Equity Based Compensation During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, applying the modified prospective method. This Statement requires all equity based payments to employees, including grants of options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. The fair values of options granted after the Company adopted this Statement were determined using a lattice valuation model and all options granted prior to adoption of this Statement were valued using a Black Scholes model. The Companys estimate of an options fair value is dependent on a complex estimation process that requires the estimation of future uncertain events. These estimates which are entered within the option valuation model include, but are not limited to, stock price volatility, the expected option life, expected dividend yield and option forfeiture rates. Effective with all options granted subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company estimates its future stock price volatility based on implied volatility from traded options on the Companys Common Shares and historical volatility over a period of time commensurate with the contractual term of the option grant (7 years). The Company analyzed historical data to estimate option exercise behaviors and employee terminations to estimate the expected option life and forfeiture rates. The Company calculated separate option valuations for three separate groups of employees with similar historical exercise behaviors. Once employee stock option values are determined, current accounting practices do not permit them to be changed, even if the estimates used in the valuation model are different from actual results. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the Company to compare its estimated option forfeiture rates to actual forfeiture rates and record any adjustments as necessary. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. 47 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources and Uses of Cash The following table summarizes the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Net cash provided by/(used in) continuing operations: Operating activities $ 1,003.0 $ 1,850.2 $ 2,475.6 Investing activities (1,611.5 ) (1,087.2 ) (693.9 ) Financing activities (2,593.4 ) (1,015.8 ) (1,652.7 ) Net cash provided by/(used in) discontinued operations: Operating activities $ 220.1 $ 270.6 $ 380.1 Investing activities 3,148.7 (100.0 ) (182.2 ) Financing activities (45.4 ) (16.4 ) (4.6 ) Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations during fiscal 2007 totaled $1.0 billion, a decrease of $847 million when compared to fiscal 2006. The decrease was a result of the decline in net income from continuing operations ($324 million) due to the litigation charges and cash settlements made in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 ($655 million). See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the litigation settlements. The increase in trade receivables ($783 million) was based on the repurchase of trade receivables ($550 million) under the Companys committed receivables program, as discussed in Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In line with the Companys focus on capital deployment, inventory levels declined $217 million and accounts payable increased $224 million. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations during fiscal 2006 totaled $1.9 billion, a decrease of $625 million when compared to fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily a result of the net proceeds received during fiscal 2005 under the Companys committed receivables sales facility program ($550 million). See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding this program. During fiscal 2006, the accounts payable increase ($1.5 billion) was partially offset by increased inventories ($356 million) and increased accounts receivable ($895 million). The accounts payable, trade receivable and inventory increases were due to new sales volume from an existing large retail chain customer and the timing of inventory purchases from vendors in the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations during fiscal 2007 totaled $220 million. Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations in fiscal 2007 was a result of earnings from discontinued operations ($1.1 billion) less the gain on the sale of the PTS Business ($1.1 billion). Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations during fiscal 2006 and 2005 totaled $271 million and $380 million, respectively. Net cash provided by discontinued operations in fiscal 2006 and 2005 was a result of the loss from discontinued operations ($163 million and $16 million, respectively), offset by the changes in the operating assets and liabilities from discontinued operations. Investing activities. Net cash used by investing activities for continuing operations of $1.6 billion during fiscal 2007 reflected cash used to complete acquisitions to broaden and enhance product offerings, including Viasys within the Medical Products Manufacturing segment, MedMined and Care Fusion within the Clinical Technologies and Services segment and SpecialtyScripts within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. See Acquisitions and Divestitures within Item 1 Business of this Form 10 K and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Companys acquisitions. Proceeds from the sale of short term investments classified as available for sale ($367 million) were offset by capital spending ($357 million) to develop and enhance the Companys infrastructure including facilities, information systems and machinery and equipment. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Companys investments. 48 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities for continuing operations of $1.1 billion during fiscal 2006 reflected the Companys purchase of short term investments classified as available for sale ($399 million) and capital spending ($340 million). In addition, during fiscal 2006, the Company used cash to complete acquisitions ($362 million) which expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry and are primarily associated with the acquisitions of Dohmen and ParMed within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, Denver Biomedical within the Medical Products Manufacturing segment and the remaining minority interest of Source Medical within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment. Net cash used in investing activities for continuing operations during fiscal 2005 of $694 million reflected the Companys capital spending ($340 million), the acquisitions of Alaris and Geodax ($273 million) and the purchase of short term investments classified as available for sale ($100 million). Net cash provided by investing activities for discontinued operations in fiscal 2007 of $3.1 billion reflected proceeds from the PTS Business divestiture ($3.2 billion) offset by capital spending ($108 million). Net cash used in investing activities for discontinued operations in fiscal 2006 and 2005 of $100 million and $182 million, respectively, primarily represents capital spending ($103 million and $214 million, respectively). Financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities for continuing operations of $2.6 billion during fiscal 2007 reflected the Companys repurchase of its Common Shares ($3.7 billion) and dividend payments to shareholders ($144 million). See Share Repurchases below for additional information. The Company also used cash to repay long term obligations ($784 million). Cash provided by financing activities included proceeds received from the issuance of long term obligations, net of issuance costs ($1.5 billion) and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans ($553 million). See Capital Resources below for further discussion of the Companys financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities for continuing operations of $1.0 billion during fiscal 2006 reflected the Companys repurchase of its Common Shares ($1.5 billion) and dividend payments to shareholders ($102 million). The Company also used cash to purchase certain buildings and equipment which were under capital lease agreements ($258 million) reflected in the reduction of long term obligations. Cash provided by financing activities includes proceeds received from the issuance of long term obligations, net of issuance costs ($497 million) and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans ($241 million). Net cash used in financing activities for continuing operations of $1.7 billion during fiscal 2005 reflected the Companys decisions to retire debt ($1.9 billion) and commercial paper ($551 million) assumed in the Alaris acquisition. The Company also used cash to repurchase its Common Shares ($500 million) and pay dividends to shareholders ($52 million) as authorized by its Board of Directors. Cash provided by financing activities include proceeds received from the issuance of long term obligations, net of issuance costs ($1.3 billion) and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans ($111 million). Net cash used in financing activities for discontinued operations in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 reflected $39 million, $48 million and $22 million, respectively, in repayments on borrowings. Sources of cash for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 were additional borrowings of $4 million, $29 million and $17 million, respectively. International Cash The Companys cash balance of approximately $1.3 billion as of June 30, 2007 included approximately $707 million of cash held by its subsidiaries outside of the United States. Although the vast majority of cash held outside the United States is available for repatriation, doing so subjects it to United States federal income tax. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding income taxes. Share Repurchases The Company repurchased approximately $5.8 billion of its Common Shares, in the aggregate, through share repurchase programs during fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. During fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased $3.8 billion of its Common Shares under a $4.5 billion repurchase program or 53.8 million shares at an average price per share of $69.79. This $4.5 billion repurchase program will expire on June 30, 2008. On August 8, 2007, the Company announced a new $2.0 billion share repurchase program which expires on August 31, 2009. The share repurchase activity (apart from the use of net proceeds from the PTS Business divestiture) supports the Companys previously 49 Table of Contents stated long term goal to return 50% of net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations to shareholders. During fiscal 2006 and 2005 the Company repurchased $1.5 billion and $500 million, respectively, of Common Shares. The Companys fiscal 2006 and 2005 Common Share repurchases represent 22.0 million and 8.9 million shares at an average price per share of $68.39 and $56.76, respectively. See Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities within Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for further information regarding the Companys most recent share repurchase program. Capital Resources In addition to cash, the Companys sources of liquidity include a $1.5 billion commercial paper program backed by a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility and a committed receivables sales facility program with the capacity to sell $800 million in receivables. The Company increased the commercial paper program from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion on February 28, 2007. The Company had no outstanding borrowings from the commercial paper program at June 30, 2007. On January 24, 2007, the Company amended certain terms of the revolving credit facility which is available for general corporate purposes. As part of the amendment, the amount of the facility was increased from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion and the term was extended to January 24, 2012. At expiration, this facility can be extended upon mutual consent of the Company and the lending institutions. This revolving credit facility exists largely to support issuances of commercial paper as well as other short term borrowings for general corporate purposes and remained unused at June 30, 2007, except for $79 million of standby letters of credit issued on behalf of the Company. During the second quarter, the Company repurchased the aggregate $550 million of receivable interests outstanding under its committed receivables sales facility program with the capacity to sell $800 million in receivables. After these repurchases, the Company did not have any receivable interest sales outstanding under its receivables sales facility program. On October 31, 2006, the Company renewed the receivables sales facility program for a period of one year. See Note 19 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Companys committed receivables sales facility program. The Company also maintains other short term credit facilities and an unsecured line of credit that allows for borrowings up to $131 million, of which $29 million was outstanding at June 30, 2007. The Company entered into a $500 million short term loan facility on March 30, 2007 and it was terminated on April 10, 2007. The Company also terminated a $150 million extendible commercial note program in the third quarter of fiscal 2007. On October 3, 2006, the Company sold $350 million aggregate principal amount of 2009 floating rate notes and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.80% notes due 2016 in a private offering. The proceeds of the debt issuance were used to repay $500 million of the Companys preferred debt securities, $127 million of the 7.30% notes due 2006 and other short term obligations of the Company. On June 8, 2007, the Company sold $300 million aggregate principal amount of 5.65% notes due 2012 and $300 million aggregate principal amount of 6.00% notes due 2017 in a private offering. The proceeds of the debt issuance were used to fund a portion of the purchase price of the Viasys acquisition and for general corporate purposes. During fiscal 2001, the Company entered into an agreement to periodically sell trade receivables to a special purpose accounts receivable and financing entity (the Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity), which is exclusively engaged in purchasing trade receivables from, and making loans to, the Company. The Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity, which is consolidated by the Company as it is the primary beneficiary of the variable interest entity, issued $250 million and $400 million in preferred variable debt securities to parties not affiliated with the Company during fiscal 2004 and 2001, respectively. On October 26, 2006, the Company amended certain of the facility terms of the Companys preferred debt securities. As part of this amendment, the Company 50 Table of Contents repaid $500 million of the principal balance with a portion of the proceeds of the October 2006 sale of notes discussed above and a minimum net worth covenant was added whereby the minimum net worth of the Company cannot fall below $5.0 billion at any time. The amendment eliminated a minimum adjusted tangible net worth covenant (adjusted tangible net worth could not fall below $2.5 billion) and certain financial ratio covenants. After the repayment, the Company had $150 million of preferred debt securities outstanding. These preferred debt securities are classified as long term obligations, less current portion and other short term obligations in the Companys consolidated balance sheet. See Notes 10 and 19 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about the Companys capital resources. From time to time, the Company considers and engages in acquisition transactions in order to expand its role as a leading provider of products and services that improve the safety and productivity of healthcare. The Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its role as a provider of products and services to the healthcare industry through all its reportable segments. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, the Company may need to enter into funding arrangements for such mergers or acquisitions. The Company currently believes that, based upon existing cash, operating cash flows, available capital resources (as discussed above) and other available market transactions, it has adequate capital resources at its disposal to fund currently anticipated capital expenditures, business growth and expansion, contractual obligations and current and projected debt service requirements, including those related to business combinations. Debt Ratings/Covenants The Companys senior debt credit ratings from SP, Moodys and Fitch are BBB, Baa2 and BBB+, respectively, and the commercial paper ratings are A 2, P 2 and F2, respectively. The Moodys and Fitch rating outlooks are stable and the SP outlook is positive. The Companys various borrowing facilities and long term debt are free of any financial covenants other than minimum net worth which cannot fall below $5.0 billion at any time. As of June 30, 2007, the Company was in compliance with this covenant. A breach of this covenant would be followed by a grace period during which the Company may discuss remedies with the security holders, or extinguish the securities, without causing an event of default. Interest Rate and Currency Risk Management The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to cash flow variability. The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to protect the value of its existing foreign currency assets and liabilities and the value of its debt. See Notes 1 and 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives, including foreign currency hedging instruments. 51 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2007, the Companys contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows (in millions): 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total On Balance Sheet: Long term debt(1) $ 13.1 $ 655.0 $ 789.4 $ 1,999.8 $ 3,457.3 Interest on long term debt 202.0 376.0 302.2 732.5 1,612.7 Capital lease obligations(2) 3.7 6.4 5.4 4.0 19.5 Other long term liabilities(3) 14.9 21.0 7.2 0.1 43.2 Off Balance Sheet: Operating leases(4) 105.2 159.4 113.1 114.0 491.7 Purchase obligations(5) 499.4 58.9 36.0 10.5 604.8 Total financial obligations $ 838.3 $ 1,276.7 $ 1,253.3 $ 2,860.9 $ 6,229.2 (1) Represents maturities of the Companys long term debt obligations excluding capital lease obligations described below. See Note 10 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (2) Represents maturities of the Companys capital lease obligations included within long term obligations on the Companys balance sheet and the related estimated future interest payments. (3) Represents cash outflows by period for certain of the Companys long term liabilities in which cash outflows could be reasonably estimated. Certain long term liabilities, such as deferred taxes, have been excluded from the table above as there are no cash outflows associated with the liabilities or the timing of the cash outflows cannot reasonably be estimated. (4) Represents minimum rental payments and the related estimated future interest payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms as described in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (5) Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and specifying all significant terms, including the following: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which the Company is obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally cancelled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from the Companys total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. The significant amount disclosed within fiscal 2008, as compared to other periods, primarily represents obligations to purchase inventories within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements See Liquidity and Capital Resources Capital Resources above and Note 19 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of off balance sheet arrangements. Recent Financial Accounting Standards See Note 1 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards. 52 Table of Contents Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The Company is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations as a result of certain market risks. These market risks primarily relate to foreign exchange, interest rate, and commodity related changes. The Company maintains a comprehensive hedging program to manage volatility related to these market exposures. It employs operational, economic, and derivative financial instruments in order to mitigate risk. See Notes 1 and 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Companys use of derivative instruments. Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity By nature of the Companys global operations, it is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations resulting from foreign exchange rate variation. These exposures are transactional and translational in nature. Since the Company manufactures and sells its products throughout the world, its foreign currency risk is diversified. Principal drivers of this diversified foreign exchange exposure include the Canadian dollar, European euro, Mexican peso, Thai baht, British pound, and Australian dollar. Transactional Exposure The Companys transactional exposure arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than the functional currency of the parent or its subsidiaries. As part of its risk management program, at the end of each fiscal year the Company performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted transactional exposure for the upcoming fiscal year. The analysis utilizes an implied volatility measurement for each currency to estimate the net potential gain or loss. The analysis included the estimated impact of its hedging program, which mitigates the Companys transactional exposure. At June 30, 2007 and 2006, the Company had hedged approximately 46% and 44%, respectively, of its transactional exposures. The following table summarizes the analysis as it relates to the Companys transactional exposure (in millions): 2007 2006 Net estimated transactional exposure $ 667.4 $ 471.4 Sensitivity gain/loss 45.6 39.5 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (20.6 ) (17.3 ) Estimated net gain/loss $ 25.0 $ 22.2 Translational Exposure The Company also has exposure related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign divisions into U.S. dollars, the functional currency of the parent. It performs a similar analysis as described above related to this translational exposure. The Company does not typically hedge any of its translational exposure and no hedging impact was included in the Companys analysis at June 30, 2007 and 2006. The following table summarizes the Companys translational exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening in the U.S. dollar (in millions): 2007 2006 Net estimated translational exposure $ 89.0 $ 93.0 Sensitivity gain/loss 8.9 9.3 Interest Rate Sensitivity The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing and investing activities to maintain liquidity and fund business operations. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions and other factors. The Companys policy is to manage exposures to interest rates using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt as deemed appropriate by management. The Company utilizes interest rate swap instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate movements. 53 Table of Contents As part of its risk management program, the Company annually performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted exposure to interest rates for the following fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. At June 30, 2007 and 2006, the potential increase or decrease in interest expense under this analysis as a result of this hypothetical change was $9.4 million and $6.2 million, respectively. Commodity Price Sensitivity The Company purchases certain commodities for use in its manufacturing processes, which include latex, heating oil, diesel fuel and polystyrene, among others. The Company typically purchases these commodities at market prices, and as a result, is affected by price fluctuations. As part of its risk management program, the Company performs sensitivity analysis on its forecasted commodity exposure for the following fiscal year. At June 30, 2007 and 2006, the Company had not hedged any of these exposures. The table below summarizes the Companys analysis of these forecasted commodity exposures and a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices as of June 30, 2007 and 2006 (in millions): 2007 2006 Estimated commodity exposure $ 251.3 $ 173.7 Sensitivity gain/loss 25.1 17.4 The Company also has exposure to certain energy related commodities, including natural gas and electricity through its normal course of business. These exposures result primarily from operating the Companys distribution, manufacturing, and corporate facilities. In certain deregulated markets, the Company from time to time enters into long term purchase contracts to supply these items at a specific price. 54 
 
Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis presented below refers to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10 K. Unless otherwise indicated, throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, discussion of matters in the Companys consolidated financial statements refers to continuing operations. The Companys discussion of results of operations is presented in four parts: Company Overview, Consolidated Results of Operations, Segment Results of Operations and Other Matters. Company Overview Strategic Overview Cardinal Health is a leading provider of products and services that improve the safety and productivity of healthcare. The Company is one of the largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies focusing on making supply chains more efficient. The Company distributes approximately one third of all pharmaceuticals prescribed in the United States and also distributes or manufactures products that are used in approximately 50% of all surgeries in the United States. The Company develops market leading technologies, including Alaris infusion pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing systems, MedMinedtm electronic infection surveillance, Viasys respiratory care products and the Care Fusiontm patient identification system. The Companys Pyxis and Alaris systems distribute approximately 8.5 million doses of medication every day. Customers include hospitals and clinics, some of the largest drug store chains in the United States and many other healthcare providers and retail outlets. The Company believes that its depth and breadth of products is unique in the industry and gives it a competitive advantage. 26 Table of Contents Cardinal Healths mission is to make the practice and delivery of healthcare safer and more productive for healthcare providers. Over the last fiscal year the Company made three major changes to better pursue its mission: the Company reorganized its businesses and reportable segments; the Company divested the PTS Business to focus on the healthcare provider in both the retail and hospital settings; and the Company made strategic acquisitions that broaden and enhance product offerings. First, the Company reorganized its reportable segments effective the first quarter of fiscal 2007 and began reporting its financial information within the following five reportable segments: Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical; Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical; Clinical Technologies and Services; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services; and Medical Products Manufacturing. This change in segment reporting resulted from a realignment of the individual businesses to better correlate the operations of the Company with the needs of its customers. This change had no effect on the Companys reported net earnings or net earnings per Common Share. Second, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company completed the sale of the PTS Business for approximately $3.2 billion in cash. The Company used the after tax net proceeds of approximately $3.1 billion to repurchase its Common Shares. The Company recognized an after tax book gain of approximately $1.1 billion from this transaction. The assets and liabilities of the PTS Business were classified as held for sale in prior periods and its operating results were classified within discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 8 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Companys discontinued operations. The Companys remaining four segments after the sale of the PTS business align within two sectors: the Healthcare Supply Chain Services sector, which includes the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segments, and the Clinical and Medical Products sector, which includes the Clinical Technologies and Services and Medical Products Manufacturing segments. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services sector focuses on delivering best in class distribution and logistics services to its customers. The sector generates 95% of total segment revenue, approximately three quarters of total segment profit (as defined below in the Segment Results of Operations section) and consistent and reliable cash flow. The Clinical and Medical Products sector focuses largely on developing innovative products for hospitals and other providers of care. The sector, with its higher margin products and services and faster growing segment profit has grown to contribute approximately one fourth of total segment profit. Third, during fiscal 2007, the Company acquired Viasys, MedMined and Care Fusion along with other acquisitions. Viasys is a leader in respiratory care through the development and marketing of systems for critical care and diagnostic use and offers products and services directed at critical care ventilation, respiratory diagnostics and clinical services, neurological, vascular, audio, homecare, orthopedics, sleep diagnostics and other medical and surgical products markets. The value of the transaction, including the assumption of Viasyss debt, totaled approximately $1.5 billion. Viasys is being integrated into the Medical Products Manufacturing segment. The Company also acquired MedMined, a leader in tracking and predicting infection management opportunities within major hospitals and Care Fusion, which focuses on bedside bar code utilization for tracking hospital samples. Both businesses are being integrated into the Clinical Technologies and Services segment. For further information regarding the Companys acquisitions see Item 1 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures, Other Matters Acquisitions below and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For further information regarding the Companys business, see Item 1 Business within this Form 10 K. Financial Overview Continued demand for the Companys products and services in fiscal 2007 led to revenue of $86.9 billion, up 9% from fiscal 2006. Operating earnings, which were negatively impacted by special items ($772 million), decreased 26% to approximately $1.4 billion. The significant increase in special items related to reserves for litigation settlements ($655 million) and in process research and development (IPRD) expenses primarily in connection with the Viasys acquisition ($85 million). The year over year operating earnings comparison was 27 Table of Contents favorably impacted by increased gross margin ($431 million) partially offset by increases in selling, general and administrative expenses ($200 million). Net earnings, which included the gain from the sale of the PTS Business ($1.1 billion), were $1.9 billion and net diluted earnings per Common Share were $4.77. Fiscal 2007 cash from operating activities decreased $898 million to $1.2 billion primarily due to the payment of litigation settlement reserves and government fines ($690 million) as discussed in the Special Items section below. Cash provided by investing activities was $1.5 billion due primarily to net proceeds from the PTS Business divesture ($3.1 billion) offset by cash paid for acquisitions ($1.6 billion). Cash used in financing activities was $2.6 billion due to the Companys cash payments for treasury shares ($3.7 billion) offset by net proceeds from borrowings ($631 million) and issuance of shares ($553 million). During fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased approximately $3.8 billion of its Common Shares under a $4.5 billion repurchase authorization of which $3.7 billion was settled prior to year end. On August 8, 2007, the Company announced a new $2.0 billion share repurchase program which expires on August 31, 2009. See the table under Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for more information regarding the share repurchases. Also during fiscal 2007, the Company paid $144 million in dividends or $0.36 per share. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Board of Directors raised the quarterly dividend by 33% to $0.12 per share. The share repurchase activity (apart from the use of net proceeds from the PTS Business divestiture) and increased dividend payments support the Companys previously stated long term goal to return 50% of net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations to shareholders and to increase its dividend payout to 20% of earnings per share. Consolidated Results of Operations The following table summarizes the Companys consolidated results of operations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions, except per Common Share amounts): Change(1) Consolidated Results of Operations 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 Revenue 9 % 10 % $ 86,852.0 $ 79,664.2 $ 72,666.0 Cost of products sold(2) 9 % 10 % 81,606.7 74,850.2 68,206.3 Gross margin 9 % 8 % $ 5,245.3 $ 4,814.0 $ 4,459.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses(2) (3) 7 % 15 % 3,082.3 2,882.8 2,497.7 Impairment charges and other N.M. N.M. 17.3 5.8 38.3 Special items N.M. N.M. 772.0 80.5 141.5 Operating earnings (26 )% 4 % $ 1,373.7 $ 1,844.9 $ 1,782.2 Interest expense and other 16 % (11 )% 121.4 104.5 117.8 Earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations (28 )% 5 % $ 1,252.3 $ 1,740.4 $ 1,664.4 Provision for income taxes (29 )% (3 )% 412.6 577.1 597.3 Earnings from continuing operations (28 )% 9 % $ 839.7 $ 1,163.3 $ 1,067.1 Earnings / (loss) from discontinued operations N.M. N.M. 1,091.4 (163.2 ) (16.4 ) Net earnings 93 % (5 )% $ 1,931.1 $ 1,000.1 $ 1,050.7 Net diluted earnings per Common Share 105 % (3 )% $ 4.77 $ 2.33 $ 2.41 (1) Change is calculated as the percentage increase or (decrease) for a given year as compared to the immediately preceding year. (2) During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company changed the classification of certain immaterial implementation costs associated with the sale of medication and supply storage devices in the Clinical Technologies and Services segment from selling, general and administrative expenses to cost of products sold. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the new presentation. 28 Table of Contents (3) Equity based compensation expense was $138 million, $208 million and $9 million, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Revenue Revenue increased $7.2 billion or 9% during fiscal 2007 due to growth in each of the Companys four reportable segments, including revenue growth of $6.5 billion within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, due primarily to growth in revenue from bulk customers ($4.0 billion). The increase in revenue from bulk customers was due to certain existing customers deciding to purchase a greater volume of product from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer and to pharmaceutical price appreciation. The Company uses the internal metric pharmaceutical price appreciation index to evaluate the impact of pharmaceutical and consumer product price appreciation on revenue from the pharmaceutical supply chain business. This metric is calculated using the change in the manufacturers published price at the beginning of the period as compared to the end of the period weighted by the units sold by the pharmaceutical supply chain business during the period. The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 6.3% during fiscal 2007. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment represents approximately 86% of total segment revenue. Refer to Segment Results of Operations below for further discussion of the specific factors affecting revenue in each of the Companys reportable segments. Revenue increased $7.0 billion or 10% during fiscal 2006 due to increased revenue within each of the Companys four reportable segments, including revenue growth of $6.4 billion within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, due primarily to growth in revenue from bulk customers ($5.8 billion). The increase in revenue from bulk customers was due to overall market growth and certain existing customers deciding to purchase a greater volume of product from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer. The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 5.6% during fiscal 2006. Cost of Products Sold Cost of products sold increased $6.8 billion or 9% and $6.6 billion or 10%, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006. The increases in cost of products sold were mainly due to the respective 9% and 10% growth in revenue for fiscal 2007 and 2006. See the Gross Margin discussion below for further discussion of additional factors impacting cost of products sold. Gross Margin Gross margin increased $431 million or 9% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 over the prior fiscal year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to revenue growth of $7.2 billion. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included increased sales of clinical and medical products and related services ($204 million), increased manufacturer cash discounts ($193 million), generic pharmaceutical margin ($192 million) and distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $171 million). Gross margin was negatively impacted by the increase in customer discounts within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segments ($324 million) due to increased sales and competitive pricing pressures. Refer to the Segment Results of Operations below for further discussion of the specific factors affecting gross margin in each of the Companys reportable segments. Due to the competitive markets in which the Companys businesses operate, the Company expects competitive pricing pressures to continue; however, the Company expects the margin impact of these pricing pressures will be mitigated through sales growth of higher margin manufactured products, effective product sourcing, realization of synergies through integration of acquired businesses and continued focus on cost controls. Gross margin increased $354 million or 8% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to revenue growth of $7.0 billion. Gross margin was favorably impacted by increased gross margin in clinical and manufactured products and related services ($211 million) and manufacturer cash discounts ($139 million) and distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $134 million) from the pharmaceutical supply chain business within the Healthcare Supply Chain 29 Table of Contents Services Pharmaceutical segment. Gross margin was negatively impacted by increased customer discounts ($232 million) in the pharmaceutical supply chain business. Selling, General and Administrative (SGA) Expenses SGA expenses increased $200 million or 7% during fiscal 2007 primarily in support of revenue growth. Additional items impacting SGA expenses included increases due to acquisitions ($72 million) and the Companys charitable contribution to the Cardinal Health Foundation ($30 million). SGA expenses were favorably impacted by the year over year reduction in equity based compensation expense ($70 million). The reduction in equity based compensation expense was due in part to changes made to the Companys equity compensation program and the grant of stock appreciation rights in the prior year. Refer to Segment Results of Operations below for further discussion of the specific factors affecting SGA expenses in each of the Companys reportable segments. The Company expects SGA expenses to grow in fiscal 2008 in support of sales growth and new product and service offerings and as a result of the impact of acquisitions and continued investment in research and development projects and international expansion; however, the Company does expect to generate expense efficiencies through the integration of acquired companies and other cost controls. SGA expenses increased $385 million or 15% during fiscal 2006 primarily in support of the $7.0 billion revenue growth and as a result of increased equity based compensation expense ($199 million), primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). See Other Matters Adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) below and Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. Additional items impacting SGA expenses included increased incentive compensation expense ($36 million) due to improved operating performance, incremental expenses associated with the Companys global restructuring program ($38 million) and increased legal expenses ($15 million) due to then outstanding litigation. Impairment Charges and Other The Company recognized impairment charges and other of $17 million, $6 million and $38 million, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding impairment charges and other. Special Items The following is a summary of the Companys special items for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Restructuring charges $ 40.1 $ 47.6 $ 80.3 Acquisition integration charges 101.5 25.4 48.3 Litigation and other 630.4 7.5 12.9 Total special items $ 772.0 $ 80.5 $ 141.5 Fiscal 2007 special items charges primarily related to reserves for litigation settlements ($655 million) and IPRD expenses ($85 million) primarily in connection with the Viasys acquisition. The Company recorded litigation charges and made payment of $655 million during fiscal 2007 related to the settlement of the Cardinal Health federal securities litigation ($600 million), Cardinal Health ERISA litigation ($40 million) and other matters. These charges were offset by $29 million of income related to pharmaceutical manufacturer antitrust litigation. In addition, the Company settled and made payment for the penalty associated with the SEC investigation ($35 million), which was reserved in fiscal 2006 and 2005. These settlements resolve some of the Companys most significant outstanding litigation as well as the SEC investigation. In fiscal 2008, the Company expects to recognize approximately $58 million in proceeds as income from insurance policies upon final settlement of all claims in shareholder derivative actions. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these matters and other outstanding legal proceedings and regulatory matters. 30 Table of Contents During fiscal 2007, the Company recorded $85 million of IPRD charges primarily associated with the Viasys acquisition. The IPRD charges were determined by an independent third party appraisal and represent the estimated fair value of the research and development projects in process at the time of the acquisition. These projects had not yet reached technological feasibility, were deemed to have no alternative use and, accordingly, were immediately charged to operating expense at the acquisition date. Fiscal 2006 and 2005 special items charges primarily related to the Companys restructuring programs, the SEC investigation and Audit Committee internal review, the integration costs of certain acquisitions and settlements received from vitamin antitrust litigation. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details of the Companys special items. Operating Earnings Operating earnings decreased $471 million or 26% during fiscal 2007, which includes increased special items charges ($692 million) and impairment and other charges ($12 million). Operating earnings were favorably impacted by gross margin growth ($431 million) and negatively impacted by increased SGA expenses ($200 million). Operating earnings increased $63 million or 4% during fiscal 2006. Operating earnings were favorably impacted by gross margin growth ($354 million) and the year over year decrease in special items charges ($61 million) and impairment charges and other ($33 million). Fiscal 2006 operating earnings were negatively impacted by increased SGA expenses ($385 million). Interest Expense and Other Interest expense and other increased $17 million or 16% during fiscal 2007 primarily due to increased borrowing levels and interest rates. Interest expense and other decreased $13 million during fiscal 2006 primarily due to an increase in investment income ($7 million) and foreign exchange gains ($4 million). Provision for Income Taxes The provisions for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations were 32.9%, 33.2% and 35.9% of pretax earnings in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Generally, fluctuations in the effective tax rate are due to changes within international and U.S. state effective tax rates resulting from the Companys business mix and changes in the tax impact of special items, which may have unique tax implications depending on the nature of the item and the taxing jurisdiction. The Companys effective tax rate reflects tax benefits derived from increasing operations outside the United States, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. The Company has tax incentive agreements in several non U.S. tax jurisdictions which will expire in fiscal years 2009 through 2024 if not renewed. The Company does not believe that potential changes from existing tax incentive agreements will have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. The Companys fiscal 2007 provision for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations was $412.6 million and the effective tax rate was 32.9%. The fiscal 2007 effective tax rate benefited by 0.2 percentage points from equity based compensation expense, which is deductible at a tax rate higher than the average tax rate. The fiscal 2007 effective tax rate was adversely impacted by 0.75 percentage points due to the non deductibility of certain special items and impairments, principally the IPRD charge related to the Viasys acquisition. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal or non U.S. income tax audits by tax authorities for fiscal years ending before June 30, 2001. The years subsequent to fiscal 2000 contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations as it relates to the amount and or timing of income, deductions and tax credits. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) currently has ongoing examinations of open years from 2001 through 2005. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the Company believes that adequate amounts of tax and interest have been provided for any adjustments that are expected to result for these years. While it is not currently possible to predict the impact of settlements or other IRS 31 Table of Contents audit activity on income tax expense or cash flows during the next 12 months, the Company does not expect any significant impact on financial position. During the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the effective tax rate from continuing operations was favorably impacted by a $9.9 million adjustment to the tax reserves primarily due to the issuance of a final IRS Revenue Agent Report that related to fiscal years 2001 and 2002. During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the effective tax rate from continuing operations was negatively impacted by a $7.3 million adjustment to the tax reserves related to an ongoing international tax audit. During the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company entered into an agreement with the IRS to close the fiscal years 1996 through 2000 federal audits. As a result, the Company reversed tax reserves of approximately $8.9 million. The Companys fiscal 2006 provision for income taxes relative to earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations was $577.1 million and the effective tax rate was 33.2%. The fiscal 2006 effective tax rate was adversely impacted by 0.2 percentage points due to the non deductibility of certain special items. A provision of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA) created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed income earned abroad by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from non U.S. subsidiaries. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company determined that it would repatriate $500 million of accumulated non U.S. earnings in fiscal 2006 pursuant to the repatriation provisions of the AJCA, and accordingly, the Company recorded a related tax liability of $26.3 million as of June 30, 2005. The $500 million is the maximum repatriation available to the Company under the repatriation provisions of the AJCA. During fiscal 2006, the Company repatriated $494 million of qualifying accumulated foreign earnings in accordance with its plan adopted during fiscal 2005. An additional tax liability of $0.4 million was recorded during fiscal 2006 due to new state legislation with respect to the AJCA, bringing the Companys total tax liability related to the repatriation recorded through June 30, 2006 to $26.7 million. Uses of repatriated funds included domestic expenditures related to non executive salaries, capital asset investments and other permitted activities. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Discontinued Operations Earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax increased by $1.3 billion during fiscal 2007 primarily due to the after tax gain on the sale of the PTS Business ($1.1 billion) and impairment charges from prior year ($185 million). See Note 8 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Companys discontinued operations. Segment Results of Operations Reportable Segments The Companys operations are organized into four reportable segments: Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical; Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical; Clinical Technologies and Services; and Medical Products Manufacturing. The Company evaluates the performance of the individual segments based upon, among other things, segment profit. Segment profit is segment revenue less segment cost of products sold, less segment SGA expenses. Segment SGA expense includes equity compensation expense as well as allocated corporate expenses for shared functions, including corporate management, corporate finance, financial shared services, human resources, information technology, legal and legislative affairs and the integrated sales organization. Corporate expenses are allocated to the segments based upon headcount, level of benefit provided and ratable allocation. Information about interest income and expense and income taxes is not provided at the segment level. In addition, special items, impairment charges and other and investment spending are not allocated to the segments. See Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Companys reportable segments. Revenue increased in each of the Companys four reportable segments during fiscal 2007, including double digit growth in the Medical Products Manufacturing (12%) and Clinical Technologies and Services (11%) segments. Segment profit increased in each of the Companys four reportable segments, including double digit 32 Table of Contents growth in the Medical Products Manufacturing (20%), Clinical Technologies and Services (20%) and Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical (14%) segments. The following table summarizes segment revenue for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): Growth(1) Segment Revenue 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical: Revenue from non bulk customers(2) 6 % 2 % $ 42,672.8 $ 40,174.9 $ 39,570.5 Revenue from bulk customers(2) 13 % 24 % 33,900.0 29,872.0 24,084.4 Total Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical 9 % 10 % $ 76,572.8 $ 70,046.9 $ 63,654.9 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical 4 % 6 % 7,513.9 7,198.6 6,823.0 Clinical Technologies and Services 11 % 11 % 2,687.0 2,430.3 2,189.3 Medical Products Manufacturing 12 % 6 % 1,835.9 1,632.9 1,537.0 Total segment revenue 9 % 10 % $ 88,609.6 $ 81,308.7 $ 74,204.2 Corporate(3) N.M. N.M. (1,757.6 ) (1,644.5 ) (1,538.2 ) Consolidated revenue 9 % 10 % $ 86,852.0 $ 79,664.2 $ 72,666.0 (1) Growth is calculated as the percentage change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to the immediately preceding year. (2) Bulk customers consist of customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. Non bulk customers include retail stores, hospitals, alternate care sites and other customers not specifically classified as bulk customers. Most deliveries to bulk customers consist of product shipped in the same form as received from the manufacturer. See discussion below within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical section for the Companys description of revenue from bulk customers. (3) Corporate revenue consists of the elimination of inter segment revenue for all periods presented. The following table summarizes segment profit for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): Growth(1) Segment Profit(2)(3) 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical(4) 14 % (7 )% $ 1,299.8 $ 1,142.6 $ 1,223.6 Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical(5) 1 % (14 )% 318.1 314.5 367.5 Clinical Technologies and Services 20 % 35 % 385.7 320.3 238.1 Medical Products Manufacturing(4) 20 % (6 )% 197.6 164.5 175.7 Total segment profit 13 % (3 )% $ 2,201.2 $ 1,941.9 $ 2,004.9 Corporate(6) N.M. N.M. (827.5 ) (97.0 ) (222.7 ) Consolidated operating earnings (26 )% 4 % $ 1,373.7 $ 1,844.9 $ 1,782.2 (1) Growth is calculated as the percentage change (increase or decrease) for a given year as compared to the immediately preceding year. (2) A portion of the corporate costs previously allocated to the former Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment have been reclassified to the remaining four segments based upon each segments respective 33 Table of Contents proportion of allocated corporate expenses. In addition, equity based compensation has been allocated to the segments based upon the forecasted equity based compensation expense for the respective segment plus one fourth of the forecasted corporate equity based compensation expense. Prior period information has been adjusted to reflect these changes in methodology. (3) Equity based compensation expense was $138 million, $208 million and $9 million, respectively, for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005. (4) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment recorded a charge reflecting credits owed to certain vendors ($32 million) for prior periods. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, an adjustment ($4 million) was recorded to reduce a portion of the reserve based upon a revised estimate. (5) During the third quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company revised the method used to allocate certain shared costs between the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment and the Medical Products Manufacturing segment to better align costs with the segment that receives the related benefits. Prior period information has been adjusted to reflect this change in methodology. (6) For fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, corporate operating earnings include special items, impairment charges and other and certain other Corporate investment spending described below: Special items Corporate operating earnings include special items of $772 million, $81 million and $142 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively (see Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of special items). Impairment charges and other See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of impairment charges and other. Investment spending The Company has encouraged its business units to identify investment projects which will provide future returns. These projects typically require incremental strategic investments in the form of additional capital or operating expenses. As approval decisions for such projects are dependent upon Corporate management, the expenses for such projects are retained at the Corporate segment. Investment spending for fiscal years, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $22 million, $19 million and $18 million, respectively. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical Performance During fiscal 2007, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment revenue increased $6.5 billion or 9% primarily from revenue from bulk customers. Segment profit increased $157 million due to revenue growth, increased generic pharmaceutical margin and increased distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation, offset by increased customer discounts and increased SGA expenses. The pharmaceutical distribution market remains highly competitive and the Company expects that customer discounts will continue to increase. However, the Company expects that increased manufacturer cash discounts and distribution service agreement fees, both of which increase with revenue growth, combined with increased generic margin and continued pharmaceutical price appreciation will enable the Company to offset increased customer discounts. The Companys results could be adversely affected if sales of pharmaceutical products decline, the frequency of new generic pharmaceutical launches decreases or pharmaceutical price appreciation decreases from its historical rate. Alternatively, the Companys results could benefit if sales of pharmaceutical products increase, the frequency of new generic pharmaceutical launches increases or pharmaceutical price appreciation exceeds its historical rate. Revenue from bulk customers, described below, increased $4.0 billion during fiscal 2007 with additional volume from existing customers ($2.7 billion) and new customers ($1.3 billion). Revenue from non bulk customers increased $2.5 billion. Growth in revenue from non bulk customers was driven by additional sales volume from existing customers and pharmaceutical price appreciation ($4.0 billion). The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 6.3% for fiscal 2007. Acquisitions ($1.2 billion), mainly Dohmen and ParMed, also had a favorable impact on the year over year revenue comparison. Negatively impacting growth in revenue from non bulk customers was the loss of existing customers due to competition ($1.0 billion) and the sale of a significant part of the specialty distribution business ($1.7 billion) in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. 34 Table of Contents Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment profit increased $157 million or 14% in fiscal 2007. Gross margin increased segment profit by $202 million primarily due to the segments revenue growth and increased generic pharmaceutical margin ($192 million) due to new product launches and competitive vendor pricing. Gross margin also was favorably impacted by increased manufacturer cash discounts due to sales volume growth ($187 million) and distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $171 million). Gross margin was negatively impacted by increased customer discounts ($319 million) due to increased sales volume and competitive pressures. The Company expects continued customer discounting due to the competitive market in which it operates. Increases in segment SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by approximately $45 million for fiscal 2007. Increases in SGA expenses were in support of the increased sales volume and due to the impact of acquisitions ($37 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($14 million). Segment profit was negatively impacted by the prior year sale of a significant portion of the specialty distribution business ($43 million). The Company estimates that branded pharmaceuticals with industry wide sales volume domestically of $21.8 billion and $4.4 billion came off of patent protection during fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively, which allowed for generic pharmaceutical competition. The Companys estimate of industry wide branded pharmaceutical sales volume is internally developed using industry sales data for significant branded pharmaceuticals adapted for the Companys fiscal period. Generic pharmaceuticals negatively impact revenue because they are offered at lower prices than branded pharmaceuticals; however, generic pharmaceuticals positively impact gross margin and operating earnings due to competitive vendor pricing. The Company generally earns the highest margins on generic pharmaceuticals during the period immediately following the initial launch of a generic product to the marketplace because generic pharmaceutical selling prices are generally deflationary. The Company expects a similar level of branded pharmaceuticals will come off of patent protection during fiscal 2008 compared with fiscal 2007. During fiscal 2006, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment revenue increased $6.4 billion or 10%. Revenue from bulk customers increased $5.8 billion. Centralized warehouse and mail order customers contributed $5.0 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, of the bulk customer revenue growth. The additional sales volume was due in significant part to certain existing warehouse customers deciding to purchase from the Company rather than directly from the manufacturer. Revenue from non bulk customers increased $604 million based upon pharmaceutical price appreciation and additional sales volume from new and existing customers. Revenue growth was negatively impacted as a result of the decision of the specialty distribution businesss largest customer to begin self distribution on January 1, 2006 and the sale of a significant portion of the specialty distribution business in the fourth quarter ($190 million). The pharmaceutical price appreciation index was 5.6% for fiscal 2006. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment profit decreased $81 million or 7% in fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $70 million due primarily to the segments revenue growth and increased manufacturer cash discounts ($139 million) due to increased sales within the pharmaceutical supply chain business. In addition, gross margin was favorably impacted by distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation (combined impact of $134 million). Other factors favorably impacting gross margin included generic pharmaceuticals ($32 million) due to sales growth, competitive vendor pricing, the introduction of new generic pharmaceuticals within the pharmaceutical supply chain business, the addition of new vendors to the segments National Logistics Center ($27 million) and a last in, first out (LIFO) reserve reduction ($26 million) primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories. Increased customer discounts within the pharmaceutical supply chain business negatively impacted segment profit by $232 million due to increased sales volume and competitive pressures. Segment profit was also negatively impacted by an adjustment ($32 million), as described in detail below. Increases in segment SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by approximately $151 million for fiscal 2006 compared to fiscal 2005. Increases in these expenses were in support of the increased sales volume and increased equity based compensation expense ($67 million) due primarily to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). As noted above, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment profit was negatively impacted by an adjustment recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. The Company discovered it had inadvertently and 35 Table of Contents erroneously failed to process credits owed to a vendor in prior years. After a thorough review, the Company determined it had failed to process similar credits for a limited number of additional vendors. These processing failures, specific to a limited area of vendor credits, resulted from system programming, interface and data entry errors relating to these vendor credits which occurred over a period of years. As a result, the Company recorded a charge ($32 million) in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting its estimate of the credits owed to these vendors. Bulk and Non Bulk Customers. The Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment differentiates between bulk and non bulk customers because bulk customers generate significantly lower segment profit as a percentage of revenue than non bulk customers. Bulk customers consist of customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. All other customers are classified as non bulk customers (for example, retail stores, pharmacies, hospitals and alternate care sites). Bulk customers include the warehouse operations of retail chains whose retail stores are classified as non bulk customers. For example, a single retail chain pharmacy customer may be both a bulk customer with respect to its warehouse operations and a non bulk customer with respect to its retail stores. Bulk customers have the ability to process large quantities of products in central locations and self distribute these products to their individual retail stores or customers. Substantially all deliveries to bulk customers consist of product shipped in the same form as the product is received from the manufacturer, but a small portion of deliveries to bulk customers are broken down into smaller units prior to shipping. Non bulk customers, on the other hand, require more complex servicing by the Company. These services, all of which are performed by the Company, include receiving inventory in large or full case quantities and breaking it down into smaller quantities, warehousing the product for a longer period of time, picking individual products specific to a customers order and delivering that smaller order to a customer location. The Company tracks revenue by bulk and non bulk customers in its financial systems. To assist the Company in managing its business, an internal analysis has been prepared to allocate segment expenses (total of segment cost of products sold and segment selling, general and administrative expenses) separately for bulk and non bulk customers. The following table shows the allocation of segment expenses, segment profit and segment profit as a percentage of revenue for bulk and non bulk customers for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Non bulk customers: Revenue from non bulk customers $ 42,673 $ 40,175 $ 39,571 Segment expenses allocated to non bulk customers(1)(2) 41,565 39,215 38,475 Segment profit from non bulk customers(1)(2) 1,108 960 1,096 Segment profit from non bulk customers as a percentage of revenue from non bulk customers(1)(2) 2.6 % 2.4 % 2.8 % Bulk customers: Revenue from bulk customers $ 33,900 $ 29,872 $ 24,084 Segment expenses allocated to bulk customers(1)(2) 33,709 29,716 23,988 Segment profit from bulk customers(1)(2) 191 156 96 Segment profit from bulk customers as a percentage of revenue from bulk customers(1)(2) 0.6 % 0.5 % 0.4 % (1) Amounts shown are estimates based upon the internal analysis described above. The preparation of this internal analysis required the use of complex and subjective estimates and allocations based upon assumptions, past experience and judgment that the Company believes are reasonable. The core pharmaceutical distribution operation (Distribution) within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment services both bulk and non bulk customers. Therefore, expenses associated with this operation were allocated between bulk and non bulk customers as described below. The brokerage operation (Brokerage) within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment only services bulk customers, therefore, expenses associated with Brokerage are allocated to bulk customers. The remaining operations (i.e. excluding Distribution and Brokerage) within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment service non bulk customers, therefore, expenses associated with these operations were allocated to non bulk customers. 36 Table of Contents The following describes the allocation of the major components of cost of products sold for Distribution between bulk and non bulk customers: Cost of products sold for pharmaceutical products is determined by specifically tracking the manufacturers designated price of products, at the time the products are sold, by bulk and non bulk customers. The manufacturers designated price is then reduced by other components impacting cost of products sold, including distribution service agreement fees, pharmaceutical price appreciation, manufacturer cash discounts and manufacturer rebates and incentives. In addition, other inventory charges and credits are added or subtracted, as appropriate, to arrive at cost of products sold. The Company used the following methods that it believes provide a reasonable correlation to allocate the remaining components of cost of products sold between bulk and non bulk customers. Distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation are tracked by manufacturer. Therefore, the Company allocated the distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation associated with each manufacturer among their products in proportion to sales of each product between bulk and non bulk customers. Manufacturer cash discounts are recognized as a reduction to cost of products sold when the related inventory is sold and were allocated in proportion to the manufacturers published price of the product sold to bulk and non bulk customers. Manufacturers rebates and incentives are based on the individual agreements entered into with manufacturers related to specific products. Rebates and incentives were grouped by contract terms and then allocated in proportion to sales to bulk and non bulk customers. Other inventory charges and credits include charges for outdated and returned inventory items and fluctuation in inventory reserves. The Company estimated the portion of these inventory charges and credits attributable to each product and then allocated them to bulk and non bulk customers in proportion to the sales of these products. The Company used methods that it believes provide a reasonable correlation to allocate the selling, general and administrative expenses for Distribution between bulk and non bulk customers as follows: Warehouse expense includes labor related expenses associated with receiving, shipping and handling the inventory as well as warehouse storage costs including insurance, taxes, supplies and other facility costs. Warehouse expense was allocated in proportion to the number of invoice line items filled for each bulk or non bulk customer because the Company believes that there is a correlation between the number of different products ordered as reflected in invoice lines and the level of effort associated with receiving, shipping and handling that order (bulk customers typically order larger quantities of products for each invoice line); Delivery expense includes transportation costs associated with physically moving the product from the warehouse to the customers designated location. Delivery expense was allocated in proportion to the number of invoices generated for each bulk or non bulk customer on the assumption that each invoice generates a delivery; Sales expense includes personnel related costs associated with sales and customer service activities (such activities are the same for both bulk and non bulk customers). Sales expense was allocated in proportion to the number of invoices generated for each bulk or non bulk customer because customer invoices are a reasonable estimate of the amount of customer service calls and sales effort; and General and administrative expenses were allocated in proportion to the units of products sold to bulk or non bulk customers. These expenses were allocated on the assumption that general and administrative expenses increase or decrease in direct relation to the volume of sales. (2) Amounts exclude LIFO credit provisions of $0, $26 million and $32 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The internal analysis indicated segment expenses as a percentage of revenue were higher for bulk customers than for non bulk customers because of higher segment cost of products sold partially offset by lower segment SGA expenses. Bulk customers receive lower pricing on sales of the same products than non bulk customers due to volume pricing in a competitive market and the lower costs related to the services provided by the Company. In 37 Table of Contents addition, sales to bulk customers in aggregate generate higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue than sales to non bulk customers because bulk customers orders consist almost entirely of higher cost branded products. The higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue for bulk customers is also driven by lower manufacturer distribution service agreement fees and branded pharmaceutical price appreciation and lower manufacturer cash discounts. Manufacturer distribution service agreement fees and manufacturer cash discounts are recognized as a reduction to segment cost of products sold and are lower as a percentage of revenue due to the mix of products sold. Pharmaceutical price appreciation increases customer pricing which, in turn, results in higher segment gross margin for sales of inventory that was on hand at the time of the manufacturers price increase. Since products sold to bulk customers are generally held in inventory for a shorter time than products sold to non bulk customers, there is less opportunity to realize the benefit of pharmaceutical price appreciation. Consequently, segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue for bulk customers is higher than for non bulk customers and segment gross margin as a percentage of revenue is substantially lower for bulk customers than for non bulk customers. Deliveries to bulk customers require substantially less services by the Company than deliveries to non bulk customers. As such, the segment SGA expenses as a percentage of revenue from bulk customers are substantially lower than from non bulk customers. These factors result in segment profit as a percentage of revenue being significantly lower for bulk customers than for non bulk customers. The Company defines bulk customers based on the way in which the Company operates its business and the services it performs for its customers. The Company is not aware of an industry standard regarding the definition of bulk customers and based solely on a review of the Annual Reports on Form 10 K of other national pharmaceutical wholesalers, the Company notes that other companies in comparable businesses may, or may not, use a different definition of bulk customers. During fiscal 2007, segment profit from bulk customers increased $35 million, or 0.1% of revenue from bulk customers, due to increased sales volume described above and the year over year increase in distribution service agreement fees and pharmaceutical price appreciation. Segment profit for non bulk customers increased $148 million, or 0.2% of revenue from non bulk customers, compared to fiscal 2006. This increase in segment profit from non bulk customers was due primarily to the increase in sales volume described above and the impact of generic products which had a greater impact on the profitability of non bulk customers due to the mix of pharmaceuticals distributed to non bulk customers. Fiscal 2006 segment profit from bulk customers increased $60 million, or 0.1% of revenue from bulk customers, due to increased sales volume described above and the year over year impact of new distribution service agreements and pharmaceutical price appreciation. The favorable impact of distribution service agreements and of pharmaceutical price appreciation had a greater impact on the profitability of bulk customers than on non bulk customers in fiscal 2006 due to the mix of branded pharmaceuticals distributed to bulk customers. These positive factors were partially offset by an increase in allocated equity based compensation expense of $10 million due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The fiscal 2006 segment profit for non bulk customers declined $136 million, or 0.4% of revenue from non bulk customers, compared to fiscal 2005. An increase in segment profit from non bulk customers due to increased sales and new distribution service agreements was offset by increased customer discounts, an increase in segment SGA expenses (which was largely due to sales growth and an increase in allocated equity based compensation expense of $57 million due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)), and a $32 million charge during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 reflecting credits owed to vendors. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical Performance During fiscal 2007, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment revenue increased $315 million while segment profit remained relatively flat. The Company remains focused on improving operating performance within this segment through continued investment in customer service and restructuring the business. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company announced its plan to combine the headquarters of the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical and Medical segments in order to promote sharing best practices and support functions to provide better service for its customers. Refer to Other Matters Global Restructuring Program below for further discussion of the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical restructuring program. Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment revenue growth of $315 million or 4% during fiscal 2007 resulted primarily from increased volume from existing customers ($215 million) and new customer accounts ($100 million). Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment profit increased $4 million or 1% during 38 Table of Contents fiscal 2007. Gross margin increased segment profit by $27 million primarily as a result of revenue growth and the impact of increased manufacturer cash discounts ($6 million). Negatively impacting gross margin were increased customer discounts ($5 million) and trade receivable reserves ($7 million) related to the segments customer service and shared service transition. Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $23 million primarily in support of revenue growth and increased transportation costs ($5 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($14 million). During fiscal 2006, Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment revenue growth of $376 million or 6% resulted primarily from increased volume from existing customers ($244 million) and new customer accounts ($115 million). Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment profit decreased $53 million or 14% during fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $53 million as a result of revenue growth and the favorable impact of the mix of private label and branded products ($9 million) due to emphasis being placed on selling Company branded products and other focused product categories and new products with higher margins ($4 million). Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $106 million in support of revenue growth and an increase in equity based compensation expense ($45 million) due primarily to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). Clinical Technologies and Services Performance During fiscal 2007, Clinical Technologies and Services segment revenue grew $257 million or 11%. Revenue growth was favorably impacted by new products ($119 million), increased sales volumes to existing customers ($90 million) due to renewals and expansion of product lines and new customers ($35 million). Acquisitions also favorably impacted the year over year comparison ($18 million). Clinical Technologies and Services segment profit increased $65 million or 20%. Gross margin increased segment profit by $132 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Gross margin was negatively impacted by the estimated costs of the Alaris SE pump corrective action plan and related consulting expenses ($18 million) due to the product recall. Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $67 million in support of the revenue growth and as a result of the impact of acquisitions ($22 million) and increased investment in product quality and research and development costs ($11 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($14 million). During fiscal 2006, Clinical Technologies and Services segment revenue growth of $241 million or 11% resulted primarily from revenue growth within the Pyxis and Alaris product lines. Pyxis products revenue increased $83 million due to higher unit sales resulting from increased demand for the Medstation 3000 product and improvements within the sales and installation cycles. Alaris products revenue increased $125 million due to competitive displacements driven by technological advantages and sales obtained through the Companys other relationships. These revenue increases were tempered by slower revenue growth in the clinical and consulting services ($52 million). Clinical Technologies and Services segment profit increased $82 million or 35% during fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $180 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included sales mix ($49 million) and manufacturing efficiencies ($12 million) driven by higher sales volume. Also favorably impacting the year over year comparison were the inventory valuation adjustments to fair value from the Alaris acquisition ($24 million) with the adjusted higher value inventory being sold during the first two quarters of fiscal 2005. Increases in SGA expenses decreased segment profit by $97 million due primarily to an increase in equity based compensation expense ($55 million) due primarily to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) and in support of the revenue growth. Estimated integration synergies from the Alaris acquisition ($54 million) favorably impacted both gross margin and SGA expenses. Medical Products Manufacturing Performance During fiscal 2007, Medical Products Manufacturing segment revenue grew $203 million or 12%. Revenue growth was favorably impacted by increased sales volume ($74 million) from existing customers and new customers won through new GPO contracts and competitor exits. Revenue growth was also favorably impacted by new product launches ($50 million), including innovations in gloves, respiratory products, surgical instruments and software, and international revenue growth ($62 million), which includes the impact of foreign exchange ($18 million). Acquisitions, including Denver Biomedical and Viasys, favorably impacted the year over year 39 Table of Contents comparison ($37 million). Due to the acquisition of Viasys, the Company expects significant growth in the Medical Products Manufacturing segment. Medical Products Manufacturing segment profit increased $33 million or 20% during fiscal 2007. Gross margin increased segment profit by $72 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included manufacturing cost reductions ($20 million) driven by strategic sourcing and expense control related to the Companys restructuring program and the integration of acquisitions ($21 million), primarily Denver Biomedical. Increases in SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by $39 million primarily in support of the segments revenue growth and from the impact of acquisitions ($13 million). Favorably impacting SGA expenses was the reduction in equity based compensation expense ($12 million). During fiscal 2006, Medical Products Manufacturing segment revenue grew $96 million or 6% resulting from revenue growth from manufactured gloves and respiratory product lines ($45 million) due to new customer accounts ($14 million) and new products ($31 million) and international revenue growth ($16 million) from new customers. Medical Products Manufacturing segment profit decreased $11 million or 6% during fiscal 2006. Gross margin increased segment profit by $31 million primarily as a result of revenue growth. Factors favorably impacting gross margin included manufacturing cost reductions driven by cost controls ($30 million) and expense control partially related to the Companys global restructuring program ($12 million). Increased raw materials costs ($25 million) negatively impacted gross margin. Increases in SGA expenses negatively impacted segment profit by $42 million primarily due to the increase in equity based compensation ($41 million) and in support of the segments revenue growth. The latex litigation charge ($28 million) recorded during fiscal 2005 also favorably impacted the year over year comparison. Other Matters Acquisitions During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company acquired Viasys, which offered products and services directed at critical care ventilation, respiratory diagnostics and clinical services, neurological, vascular, audio, homecare, orthopedics, sleep diagnostics and other medical and surgical products markets. The value of the transaction, including the assumption of Viasyss debt, totaled approximately $1.5 billion. In addition, during fiscal 2007, the Company completed other acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these other acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $165 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $22 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations from the date of acquisition. Had the transactions, including Viasys, occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2006, consolidated results of operations would not have differed materially from reported results. For further information regarding the Companys acquisitions see Item 1 Business Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. During fiscal 2006, the Company completed acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $364 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $149 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations from the date of acquisition. Had the transactions occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2005, consolidated results of operations would not have differed materially. During fiscal 2005, the Company completed acquisitions that individually were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions, which was paid in cash, was approximately $107 million. Assumed liabilities of these acquired businesses were approximately $27 million. The consolidated financial statements include the results of operations from each of these business combinations from the date of acquisition. Had the transactions occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2004, consolidated results of operations would not have differed materially. The Companys trend with regard to acquisitions has been to expand its role as a provider of services and innovative products to the healthcare industry. This trend has resulted in expansion into areas that complement the Companys existing operations and provide opportunities for the Company to develop synergies with, and strengthen, the acquired business. As the healthcare industry continues to change, the Company evaluates possible 40 Table of Contents candidates for acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry through all its reportable segments. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to successfully take advantage of any such opportunity if and when it arises or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are pursued or consummated, the Company would incur additional acquisition integration charges, and may need to enter into funding arrangements for such acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful. Sale of the PTS Business On April 10, 2007, the Company completed the sale of the PTS Business to Phoenix Charter LLC (Phoenix), an affiliate of The Blackstone Group, pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement between the Company and Phoenix, dated as of January 25, 2007 as amended (the Purchase Agreement). At the closing of the sale, the Company received approximately $3.2 billion in cash from Phoenix, which was the purchase price of approximately $3.3 billion as adjusted pursuant to certain provisions in the Purchase Agreement for the working capital, cash, indebtedness and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of the PTS Business. The Company recognized an after tax book gain of approximately $1.1 billion from this transaction. The Company used the after tax net proceeds of approximately $3.1 billion from the sale to repurchase shares. The Purchase Agreement contained customary indemnification provisions for sale transactions of this type. Global Restructuring Program During fiscal 2005, the Company launched a global restructuring program with a goal of increasing the value that the Company provides its customers through better integration of existing businesses and improved efficiency from a more disciplined approach to procurement and resource allocation. On April 30, 2007, the Company announced a third phase of its global restructuring program to move the headquarters of the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment and certain corporate functions from Waukegan, Illinois to the Companys corporate headquarters in Dublin, Ohio. The Company expects this third phase to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2009. See the Companys Form 8 K filed on April 30, 2007 for additional information. Adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) applying the modified prospective method. SFAS No. 123(R) requires all equity based payments to employees, including grants of employee options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for equity based awards under the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations, and equity based compensation was included as pro forma disclosure within the notes to the financial statements. In anticipation of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company did not modify the terms of any previously granted options. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Business Model Transition Historically, a significant portion of the pharmaceutical supply chain business gross margin was derived from the Companys ability to purchase pharmaceutical inventory, hold that inventory when a manufacturer increased prices, and sell that product at the higher price. Beginning in fiscal 2003, branded pharmaceutical manufacturers began to seek greater control over the amount of product available in the supply chain and, as a result, began to change their sales practices by restricting the volume of product available for purchase by wholesalers. In addition, manufacturers sought additional services from the Company, including providing data concerning product sales and distribution patterns. The Company believes that manufacturers sought these changes to provide them with greater visibility over product demand and movement in the market and to increase product safety and integrity by reducing the risks associated with product being available to, and distributed in, the secondary market. These changes significantly reduced the pharmaceutical price appreciation earned by the Company. 41 Table of Contents In response to these developments, the Company established a compensation system with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers that is significantly less dependent on manufacturers pricing practices, and is based on the services provided by the Company to meet the unique distribution requirements of each manufacturers products. During fiscal 2005, the Company worked with individual branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to define fee for service terms that compensate the Company based on the services being provided to such manufacturers. This transition was completed during fiscal 2006. These new arrangements have moderated the seasonality of earnings which have historically reflected the pattern of manufacturers price increases. Under the fee for service arrangements, reflected in written distribution service agreements, the Companys compensation for these services may be a fee or a fee plus pharmaceutical price appreciation. In certain instances, the Company must achieve certain performance criteria to receive the maximum fees under the agreement. The fee is typically a fixed percentage of either the Companys purchases from the manufacturer or the Companys sales of the manufacturers products to its customers. The Company continues to generate gross margin from the sale of some manufacturers products from pharmaceutical price appreciation without receiving distribution service agreement fees. If the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price appreciation slows, the Companys results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Distribution service agreements between the Company and certain branded pharmaceutical manufacturers generally range from a one year term with an automatic renewal feature to a five year term. These agreements generally cannot be terminated unless mutually agreed by the parties, a breach of the agreement occurs that is not cured, or a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event occurs. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate the agreement without cause within a defined notice period. Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that can have a significant impact on the presentation of the Companys financial condition and results of operations, and require use of complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Other companies applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual results may differ from these estimates. Below are those policies applied in preparing the Companys consolidated financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Allowance for doubtful accounts Trade receivables are amounts owed to the Company through its operating activities and are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company also provides financing to various customers. Such financing arrangements range from ninety days to ten years at interest rates that generally are subject to fluctuation. These financings may be collateralized, guaranteed by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivables are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and are included in other assets. Extending credit terms and calculating the required allowance for doubtful accounts involve the use of judgment by the Companys management. In determining the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, which includes portfolio and specific reserves, the Company reviews accounts receivable aging, industry trends, customer financial strength, credit standing, historical write off trends and payment history to assess the probability of collection. The Company continuously monitors the collectibility of its receivable portfolio by analyzing the aging of its accounts receivable, assessing credit worthiness of its customers and evaluating the impact of changes in economic conditions that may impact credit risks. If the frequency or severity of customer defaults change due to changes in customers financial condition or general economic conditions, the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts may require adjustment. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $128.9 million and $126.4 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. This allowance represented 2.2% and 2.6% of customer receivables at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of revenue was 0.15%, 0.16% and 0.16% at June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The allowance for doubtful accounts was reduced by $28.4 million, 42 Table of Contents $22.6 million and $21.2 million in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, for customer deductions and write offs and was increased by additional provisions of $24.0 million, $24.6 million and $7.7 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. A hypothetical 0.1% increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables and sales type leases to the reserve at June 30, 2007 would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $5.9 million. Reserve methodologies are assessed annually based on historical losses and economic, business and market trends. In addition, reserves are reviewed quarterly and updated if unusual circumstances or trends are present. The Company believes the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal 2007 are appropriate and consistent with historical methodologies employed. At this time, the Company is not aware of any internal process or customer issues that might lead to a significant future increase in the Companys allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net revenue. See Schedule II included in this Form 10 K which includes a rollforward of activity for these allowance reserves. Inventories A substantial portion of inventories (approximately 73% and 75% at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively) are stated at the lower of cost, using the LIFO method, or market. These inventories are included within the core distribution facilities within the Companys Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment (core distribution facilities) and are primarily merchandise inventories. The LIFO impact on the consolidated statement of earnings in a given year is dependent on pharmaceutical price appreciation and the level of inventory. Prices for branded pharmaceuticals are primarily inflationary, which results in an increase in cost of products sold, whereas prices for generic pharmaceuticals are deflationary, which results in a decrease in cost of products sold. Under the LIFO method, it is assumed that the most recent inventory purchases are the first items sold. As such, the Company uses LIFO to better match current costs and revenue. Therefore, reductions in the overall inventory levels resulting from declining branded pharmaceutical inventory levels generally will result in a decrease in future cost of products sold, as the remaining inventory will be held at a lower cost due to the inflationary environment. Conversely, reductions in the overall inventory levels created by declining generic pharmaceutical inventory levels would generally increase future cost of products sold, as the remaining inventory will be held at a higher cost due to the deflationary environment. The Company believes that the average cost method of inventory valuation provides a reasonable approximation of the current cost of replacing inventory within the core distribution facilities. As such, the LIFO reserve is the difference between (a) inventory at the lower of LIFO cost or market and (b) inventory at replacement cost determined using the average cost method of inventory valuation. In fiscal 2007, the Company did not record any LIFO reserve reductions. The LIFO reserve reduction in fiscal 2006 of $26.0 million was primarily due to price deflation within generic pharmaceutical inventories. The remaining inventory is primarily stated at the lower of cost, using the first in, first out (FIFO) method, or market. If the Company had used the average cost method of inventory valuation for all inventory within the core distribution facilities, inventories would not have changed in fiscal 2007 or fiscal 2006. In fact, primarily due to continued deflation in generic pharmaceutical inventories, inventories at LIFO were $55.8 million and $1.0 million higher than the average cost value as of June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. However, the Companys policy is not to record inventories in excess of its current market value. Inventories recorded on the Companys consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory which were $95.8 million and $112.2 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company reserves for inventory obsolescence using estimates based on historical experiences, sales trends, specific categories of inventory and age of on hand inventory. If actual conditions are less favorable than the Companys assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required, however these would not be expected to have a material adverse impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. Business Combinations Assumptions and estimates are used in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. A significant portion of the purchase price in many of the Companys acquisitions is assigned to intangible assets which require management to use significant judgment in determining fair value. The Company typically utilizes third party valuation experts for this process. In addition, current and future amortization expense 43 Table of Contents for such intangibles is impacted by purchase price allocations as well as the assessment of estimated useful lives of such intangibles, excluding goodwill. The Company believes the assets recorded and the useful lives established are appropriate based upon current facts and circumstances. In conjunction with the review of a transaction, the valuation experts assess the status of the acquired companys research and development projects to determine the existence of IPRD. In connection with the acquisitions of Viasys and Care Fusion, the Company was required to estimate the fair value of acquired IPRD which required selecting an appropriate discount rate and estimating future cash flows for each project. Management also assessed the current status of development, nature and timing of efforts to complete such development, uncertainties and other factors when estimating the fair value. Costs were not assigned to IPRD unless future development was probable. Once the fair value was determined, an asset was established, and in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method, was immediately written off as a special item in the Companys consolidated statement of earnings. The Company recorded $83.9 million and $0.6 million as a special item in fiscal 2007 representing an estimate of Viasyss and Care Fusions acquired IPRD, respectively (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Goodwill and Other Intangibles The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with SFAS No. 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Under SFAS No. 142, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Intangible assets with finite lives, primarily customer relationships and patents and trademarks, continue to be amortized over their useful lives. In conducting the impairment test, the fair value of the Companys reporting units is compared to its carrying amount including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, further analysis is performed to assess impairment. The Companys determination of fair value of the reporting units is based on a discounted cash flow analysis or a review of the price/earnings ratio for publicly traded companies similar in nature, scope and size. The methods and assumptions used to test impairment have been revised for the segment realignment for the periods presented. The discount rate used for impairment testing is based on the risk free rate plus an adjustment for risk factors. The use of alternative estimates, peer groups or changes in the industry, or adjusting the discount rate used could affect the estimated fair value of the assets and potentially result in impairment. Any identified impairment would result in an adjustment to the Companys results of operations. The Company performed its annual impairment tests in fiscal 2007 and 2006, neither of which resulted in the recognition of any impairment charges. Decreasing the price/earnings ratio of competitors used for impairment testing by one point or increasing the discount rate in the discounted cash flow analysis used for impairment testing by 1% would not have indicated impairment for any of the Companys reporting units for fiscal 2007 or 2006. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill and other intangibles. Special Items The Company records restructuring charges, acquisition integration charges and certain litigation and other items as special items. A restructuring activity is a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Restructuring charges are recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. Under this Statement, a liability is measured at its fair value and recognized as incurred. Acquisition integration charges include costs to integrate acquired companies. Upon acquisition, certain integration charges are included within the purchase price allocation in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, and other integration charges are recorded as special items as incurred. 44 Table of Contents Certain litigation recorded in special items consists of settlements of significant lawsuits that are infrequent, non recurring or unusual in nature. The Company also classified legal fees and document preservation and production costs incurred in connection with the SEC investigation and the Audit Committee internal review and related matters as special items. The majority of the special items related to acquisition integration and restructurings can be classified in one of the following categories: employee related costs, exit costs (including lease termination costs), asset impairments and other integration costs. Employee costs include severance and termination benefits. Lease termination costs include lease cancellation fees, forfeited deposits and remaining payments due under existing lease agreements less estimated sublease income. Other facility exit costs include costs to move equipment or inventory out of a facility as well as other costs incurred to shut down a facility. Asset impairment costs include the reduction in value of the Companys assets as a result of the integration or restructuring activities. Other integration costs primarily include charges directly related to the integration plan such as consulting costs related to information systems and employee benefit plans as well as relocation and travel costs directly associated with the integration plan. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Vendor Reserves The Company maintains reserves to cover areas of exposure with its vendors. In determining appropriate vendor reserves, the Company assesses historical experience and current outstanding claims. The Company has established various levels of reserves based on the type of claim and status of review. The Company researches and resolves various types of contested transactions based on discussions with vendors, Company policy and findings of research performed. Though the transaction types are relatively consistent, the Company has periodically refined its estimate methodology over the past few years by updating the reserve estimate percentages based upon historical experiences. Changes to the estimate percentages have resulted in a financial impact to the Companys cost of products sold in the period in which the change was made. Vendor reserves were $72.6 million and $112.4 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Approximately 61% and 73% of the vendor reserve at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, pertained to the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. Fluctuations in the reserve balance are caused by the variations of outstanding claims from period to period, timing of settlements and specific vendor issues, such as bankruptcies (significant events would be described above in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Though vendor transactions remain relatively consistent from period to period, unforeseen events such as the deterioration in the financial condition of a large vendor or a settlement of numerous outstanding claims could cause the reserve to fluctuate, and thus, have a financial impact on the periods financial results. At any given time, there are outstanding items in various stages of research and resolution. The ultimate outcome of certain claims may be different than the Companys original estimate and may require adjustment. However, the Company believes reserves recorded for such disputes are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. Self Insurance Accruals The Company is self insured for employee medical and dental insurance programs. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $24.3 million and $24.1 million for estimated costs related to outstanding claims at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, administrative fees and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. These estimates are based on the Companys assessment of outstanding claims, historical analysis and current payment trends. The Company records an estimate for the claims incurred but not reported using an estimated lag period. This lag period assumption has been consistently applied for the periods presented. If the lag period was hypothetically adjusted by a period equal to a half month, the impact on earnings would be $6.0 million. If the amount of claims, medical or dental costs increase beyond what was estimated, the reserve might not be sufficient and additional expense could be required. However, the Company believes the liabilities recorded are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. 45 Table of Contents Medical and dental insurance expense was $174.6 million, $140.5 million and $140.4 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Through a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, the Company has certain deductibles or is self insured for various risks including general liability, product liability, pharmacist professional liability, auto liability, property and workers compensation. However, claims in excess of certain limits are insured with commercial insurers. The Company had recorded liabilities totaling $82.2 million and $76.3 million for anticipated costs related to liability, property and workers compensation at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These costs include an estimate for expected settlements on pending claims, defense costs, claims adjustment costs and an estimate for claims incurred but not reported. For certain types of exposures the Company uses third parties to assist in developing the estimate of expected ultimate costs to settle each claim which is based on specific information related to each claim. For claims incurred but not reported the liabilities are calculated by outside actuaries and are derived in accordance with generally accepted actuarial practices. The amount of ultimate liability in respect to these matters is dependent on future contingent events that cannot be predicted with certainty and may differ from these estimates. Although the Company believes that liability estimates are appropriate based on information available at June 30, 2007, it is possible, based on generally accepted actuarial analysis, that under adverse conditions the ultimate liability could exceed recorded expected liabilities as of June 30, 2007 by as much as $4.9 million. The insurance expense for general liability, product liability, pharmacist professional liability, auto liability, property and workers compensation was $70.4 million, $71.3 million and $66.5 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Provision for Income Taxes The Companys income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities and income tax reserves reflect managements assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the financial statements. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards for tax purposes. The Company had net deferred income tax assets of $394.2 million and $461.1 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company also had net deferred income tax liabilities of $1.7 billion at June 30, 2007 and 2006. Net deferred income tax assets included net federal, state and local, and international loss and credit carry forwards at June 30, 2007 and 2006 of $178.2 million and $84.9 million, respectively. The Company established a net valuation allowance of $180.5 million and $34.4 million at June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, against certain deferred tax assets, which primarily relates to federal and state loss carryforwards for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. The Company established a $127.1 million valuation allowance in fiscal 2007 related to capital loss carryforwards resulting from the PTS Business divestiture for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. Expiring carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted annually. After application of the valuation allowances described above, the Company anticipates no limitations will apply with respect to utilization of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described above. In addition, the Company has established an estimated liability for federal, state and non U.S. income tax exposures that arise and meet the criteria for accrual under SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. The Company prepares and files tax returns based on its interpretation of tax laws and regulations and records estimates based on these judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business, the Companys tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation, regulation and or as concluded through the various jurisdictions tax court systems. The Company has developed a methodology for estimating its tax liability related to such matters and has consistently followed such methodology from period to period. The liability amounts for such matters are based on an evaluation of the underlying facts and circumstances, a thorough research of the technical merits of the Companys arguments and an assessment of the probability of the Company prevailing in its arguments. In all cases, the Company considers previous findings of the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. The Company generally consults with external tax advisers in reaching its conclusions. Amounts accrued for a particular period are adjusted when a significant change in facts or circumstances has occurred. 46 Table of Contents The Company believes that its estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and tax contingency reserves are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop a different estimate and the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amounts accrued. In addition to income mix from geographical regions, the significant assumptions and estimates described in the preceding paragraphs are important contributors to the ultimate effective tax rate in each year. Although not material to the effective tax rate for the three fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, if any of the Companys assumptions or estimates were to change, an increase/decrease in the Companys effective tax rate by 1% on earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations would have caused income tax expense to increase/decrease by $12.5 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007. In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company is required to adopt the provisions of FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. This standard also provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. This interpretation also provides guidance on measurement, derecognizing, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The Company is currently assessing the impact of FIN No. 48 on its consolidated financial statements. Loss Contingencies The Company accrues for contingencies related to litigation in accordance with SFAS No. 5, which requires the Company to assess contingencies to determine degree of probability and range of possible settlement. An estimated loss contingency is accrued in the Companys consolidated financial statements if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the settlement can be reasonably estimated. Assessing contingencies is highly subjective and requires judgments about future events. The Company regularly reviews contingencies to determine the adequacy of the accruals and related disclosures. The amount of ultimate settlement may differ from these estimates. Equity Based Compensation During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, applying the modified prospective method. This Statement requires all equity based payments to employees, including grants of options, to be recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. The fair values of options granted after the Company adopted this Statement were determined using a lattice valuation model and all options granted prior to adoption of this Statement were valued using a Black Scholes model. The Companys estimate of an options fair value is dependent on a complex estimation process that requires the estimation of future uncertain events. These estimates which are entered within the option valuation model include, but are not limited to, stock price volatility, the expected option life, expected dividend yield and option forfeiture rates. Effective with all options granted subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company estimates its future stock price volatility based on implied volatility from traded options on the Companys Common Shares and historical volatility over a period of time commensurate with the contractual term of the option grant (7 years). The Company analyzed historical data to estimate option exercise behaviors and employee terminations to estimate the expected option life and forfeiture rates. The Company calculated separate option valuations for three separate groups of employees with similar historical exercise behaviors. Once employee stock option values are determined, current accounting practices do not permit them to be changed, even if the estimates used in the valuation model are different from actual results. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires the Company to compare its estimated option forfeiture rates to actual forfeiture rates and record any adjustments as necessary. See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding equity based compensation. 47 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources and Uses of Cash The following table summarizes the Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in millions): 2007 2006 2005 Net cash provided by/(used in) continuing operations: Operating activities $ 1,003.0 $ 1,850.2 $ 2,475.6 Investing activities (1,611.5 ) (1,087.2 ) (693.9 ) Financing activities (2,593.4 ) (1,015.8 ) (1,652.7 ) Net cash provided by/(used in) discontinued operations: Operating activities $ 220.1 $ 270.6 $ 380.1 Investing activities 3,148.7 (100.0 ) (182.2 ) Financing activities (45.4 ) (16.4 ) (4.6 ) Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations during fiscal 2007 totaled $1.0 billion, a decrease of $847 million when compared to fiscal 2006. The decrease was a result of the decline in net income from continuing operations ($324 million) due to the litigation charges and cash settlements made in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 ($655 million). See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the litigation settlements. The increase in trade receivables ($783 million) was based on the repurchase of trade receivables ($550 million) under the Companys committed receivables program, as discussed in Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In line with the Companys focus on capital deployment, inventory levels declined $217 million and accounts payable increased $224 million. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations during fiscal 2006 totaled $1.9 billion, a decrease of $625 million when compared to fiscal 2005. The decrease was primarily a result of the net proceeds received during fiscal 2005 under the Companys committed receivables sales facility program ($550 million). See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding this program. During fiscal 2006, the accounts payable increase ($1.5 billion) was partially offset by increased inventories ($356 million) and increased accounts receivable ($895 million). The accounts payable, trade receivable and inventory increases were due to new sales volume from an existing large retail chain customer and the timing of inventory purchases from vendors in the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations during fiscal 2007 totaled $220 million. Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations in fiscal 2007 was a result of earnings from discontinued operations ($1.1 billion) less the gain on the sale of the PTS Business ($1.1 billion). Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations during fiscal 2006 and 2005 totaled $271 million and $380 million, respectively. Net cash provided by discontinued operations in fiscal 2006 and 2005 was a result of the loss from discontinued operations ($163 million and $16 million, respectively), offset by the changes in the operating assets and liabilities from discontinued operations. Investing activities. Net cash used by investing activities for continuing operations of $1.6 billion during fiscal 2007 reflected cash used to complete acquisitions to broaden and enhance product offerings, including Viasys within the Medical Products Manufacturing segment, MedMined and Care Fusion within the Clinical Technologies and Services segment and SpecialtyScripts within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment. See Acquisitions and Divestitures within Item 1 Business of this Form 10 K and Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Companys acquisitions. Proceeds from the sale of short term investments classified as available for sale ($367 million) were offset by capital spending ($357 million) to develop and enhance the Companys infrastructure including facilities, information systems and machinery and equipment. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Companys investments. 48 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities for continuing operations of $1.1 billion during fiscal 2006 reflected the Companys purchase of short term investments classified as available for sale ($399 million) and capital spending ($340 million). In addition, during fiscal 2006, the Company used cash to complete acquisitions ($362 million) which expand its role as a provider of services to the healthcare industry and are primarily associated with the acquisitions of Dohmen and ParMed within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Pharmaceutical segment, Denver Biomedical within the Medical Products Manufacturing segment and the remaining minority interest of Source Medical within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment. Net cash used in investing activities for continuing operations during fiscal 2005 of $694 million reflected the Companys capital spending ($340 million), the acquisitions of Alaris and Geodax ($273 million) and the purchase of short term investments classified as available for sale ($100 million). Net cash provided by investing activities for discontinued operations in fiscal 2007 of $3.1 billion reflected proceeds from the PTS Business divestiture ($3.2 billion) offset by capital spending ($108 million). Net cash used in investing activities for discontinued operations in fiscal 2006 and 2005 of $100 million and $182 million, respectively, primarily represents capital spending ($103 million and $214 million, respectively). Financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities for continuing operations of $2.6 billion during fiscal 2007 reflected the Companys repurchase of its Common Shares ($3.7 billion) and dividend payments to shareholders ($144 million). See Share Repurchases below for additional information. The Company also used cash to repay long term obligations ($784 million). Cash provided by financing activities included proceeds received from the issuance of long term obligations, net of issuance costs ($1.5 billion) and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans ($553 million). See Capital Resources below for further discussion of the Companys financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities for continuing operations of $1.0 billion during fiscal 2006 reflected the Companys repurchase of its Common Shares ($1.5 billion) and dividend payments to shareholders ($102 million). The Company also used cash to purchase certain buildings and equipment which were under capital lease agreements ($258 million) reflected in the reduction of long term obligations. Cash provided by financing activities includes proceeds received from the issuance of long term obligations, net of issuance costs ($497 million) and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans ($241 million). Net cash used in financing activities for continuing operations of $1.7 billion during fiscal 2005 reflected the Companys decisions to retire debt ($1.9 billion) and commercial paper ($551 million) assumed in the Alaris acquisition. The Company also used cash to repurchase its Common Shares ($500 million) and pay dividends to shareholders ($52 million) as authorized by its Board of Directors. Cash provided by financing activities include proceeds received from the issuance of long term obligations, net of issuance costs ($1.3 billion) and proceeds received from shares issued under various employee stock plans ($111 million). Net cash used in financing activities for discontinued operations in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 reflected $39 million, $48 million and $22 million, respectively, in repayments on borrowings. Sources of cash for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 were additional borrowings of $4 million, $29 million and $17 million, respectively. International Cash The Companys cash balance of approximately $1.3 billion as of June 30, 2007 included approximately $707 million of cash held by its subsidiaries outside of the United States. Although the vast majority of cash held outside the United States is available for repatriation, doing so subjects it to United States federal income tax. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding income taxes. Share Repurchases The Company repurchased approximately $5.8 billion of its Common Shares, in the aggregate, through share repurchase programs during fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. During fiscal 2007, the Company repurchased $3.8 billion of its Common Shares under a $4.5 billion repurchase program or 53.8 million shares at an average price per share of $69.79. This $4.5 billion repurchase program will expire on June 30, 2008. On August 8, 2007, the Company announced a new $2.0 billion share repurchase program which expires on August 31, 2009. The share repurchase activity (apart from the use of net proceeds from the PTS Business divestiture) supports the Companys previously 49 Table of Contents stated long term goal to return 50% of net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations to shareholders. During fiscal 2006 and 2005 the Company repurchased $1.5 billion and $500 million, respectively, of Common Shares. The Companys fiscal 2006 and 2005 Common Share repurchases represent 22.0 million and 8.9 million shares at an average price per share of $68.39 and $56.76, respectively. See Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities within Item 5 Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities for further information regarding the Companys most recent share repurchase program. Capital Resources In addition to cash, the Companys sources of liquidity include a $1.5 billion commercial paper program backed by a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility and a committed receivables sales facility program with the capacity to sell $800 million in receivables. The Company increased the commercial paper program from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion on February 28, 2007. The Company had no outstanding borrowings from the commercial paper program at June 30, 2007. On January 24, 2007, the Company amended certain terms of the revolving credit facility which is available for general corporate purposes. As part of the amendment, the amount of the facility was increased from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion and the term was extended to January 24, 2012. At expiration, this facility can be extended upon mutual consent of the Company and the lending institutions. This revolving credit facility exists largely to support issuances of commercial paper as well as other short term borrowings for general corporate purposes and remained unused at June 30, 2007, except for $79 million of standby letters of credit issued on behalf of the Company. During the second quarter, the Company repurchased the aggregate $550 million of receivable interests outstanding under its committed receivables sales facility program with the capacity to sell $800 million in receivables. After these repurchases, the Company did not have any receivable interest sales outstanding under its receivables sales facility program. On October 31, 2006, the Company renewed the receivables sales facility program for a period of one year. See Note 19 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Companys committed receivables sales facility program. The Company also maintains other short term credit facilities and an unsecured line of credit that allows for borrowings up to $131 million, of which $29 million was outstanding at June 30, 2007. The Company entered into a $500 million short term loan facility on March 30, 2007 and it was terminated on April 10, 2007. The Company also terminated a $150 million extendible commercial note program in the third quarter of fiscal 2007. On October 3, 2006, the Company sold $350 million aggregate principal amount of 2009 floating rate notes and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.80% notes due 2016 in a private offering. The proceeds of the debt issuance were used to repay $500 million of the Companys preferred debt securities, $127 million of the 7.30% notes due 2006 and other short term obligations of the Company. On June 8, 2007, the Company sold $300 million aggregate principal amount of 5.65% notes due 2012 and $300 million aggregate principal amount of 6.00% notes due 2017 in a private offering. The proceeds of the debt issuance were used to fund a portion of the purchase price of the Viasys acquisition and for general corporate purposes. During fiscal 2001, the Company entered into an agreement to periodically sell trade receivables to a special purpose accounts receivable and financing entity (the Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity), which is exclusively engaged in purchasing trade receivables from, and making loans to, the Company. The Accounts Receivable and Financing Entity, which is consolidated by the Company as it is the primary beneficiary of the variable interest entity, issued $250 million and $400 million in preferred variable debt securities to parties not affiliated with the Company during fiscal 2004 and 2001, respectively. On October 26, 2006, the Company amended certain of the facility terms of the Companys preferred debt securities. As part of this amendment, the Company 50 Table of Contents repaid $500 million of the principal balance with a portion of the proceeds of the October 2006 sale of notes discussed above and a minimum net worth covenant was added whereby the minimum net worth of the Company cannot fall below $5.0 billion at any time. The amendment eliminated a minimum adjusted tangible net worth covenant (adjusted tangible net worth could not fall below $2.5 billion) and certain financial ratio covenants. After the repayment, the Company had $150 million of preferred debt securities outstanding. These preferred debt securities are classified as long term obligations, less current portion and other short term obligations in the Companys consolidated balance sheet. See Notes 10 and 19 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about the Companys capital resources. From time to time, the Company considers and engages in acquisition transactions in order to expand its role as a leading provider of products and services that improve the safety and productivity of healthcare. The Company evaluates possible candidates for merger or acquisition and considers opportunities to expand its role as a provider of products and services to the healthcare industry through all its reportable segments. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, the Company may need to enter into funding arrangements for such mergers or acquisitions. The Company currently believes that, based upon existing cash, operating cash flows, available capital resources (as discussed above) and other available market transactions, it has adequate capital resources at its disposal to fund currently anticipated capital expenditures, business growth and expansion, contractual obligations and current and projected debt service requirements, including those related to business combinations. Debt Ratings/Covenants The Companys senior debt credit ratings from SP, Moodys and Fitch are BBB, Baa2 and BBB+, respectively, and the commercial paper ratings are A 2, P 2 and F2, respectively. The Moodys and Fitch rating outlooks are stable and the SP outlook is positive. The Companys various borrowing facilities and long term debt are free of any financial covenants other than minimum net worth which cannot fall below $5.0 billion at any time. As of June 30, 2007, the Company was in compliance with this covenant. A breach of this covenant would be followed by a grace period during which the Company may discuss remedies with the security holders, or extinguish the securities, without causing an event of default. Interest Rate and Currency Risk Management The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to manage its exposure to cash flow variability. The Company also uses foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps to protect the value of its existing foreign currency assets and liabilities and the value of its debt. See Notes 1 and 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives, including foreign currency hedging instruments. 51 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2007, the Companys contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows (in millions): 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter Total On Balance Sheet: Long term debt(1) $ 13.1 $ 655.0 $ 789.4 $ 1,999.8 $ 3,457.3 Interest on long term debt 202.0 376.0 302.2 732.5 1,612.7 Capital lease obligations(2) 3.7 6.4 5.4 4.0 19.5 Other long term liabilities(3) 14.9 21.0 7.2 0.1 43.2 Off Balance Sheet: Operating leases(4) 105.2 159.4 113.1 114.0 491.7 Purchase obligations(5) 499.4 58.9 36.0 10.5 604.8 Total financial obligations $ 838.3 $ 1,276.7 $ 1,253.3 $ 2,860.9 $ 6,229.2 (1) Represents maturities of the Companys long term debt obligations excluding capital lease obligations described below. See Note 10 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (2) Represents maturities of the Companys capital lease obligations included within long term obligations on the Companys balance sheet and the related estimated future interest payments. (3) Represents cash outflows by period for certain of the Companys long term liabilities in which cash outflows could be reasonably estimated. Certain long term liabilities, such as deferred taxes, have been excluded from the table above as there are no cash outflows associated with the liabilities or the timing of the cash outflows cannot reasonably be estimated. (4) Represents minimum rental payments and the related estimated future interest payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms as described in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (5) Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and specifying all significant terms, including the following: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which the Company is obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally cancelled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from the Companys total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. The significant amount disclosed within fiscal 2008, as compared to other periods, primarily represents obligations to purchase inventories within the Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements See Liquidity and Capital Resources Capital Resources above and Note 19 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a discussion of off balance sheet arrangements. Recent Financial Accounting Standards See Note 1 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards. 52 Table of Contents Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The Company is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations as a result of certain market risks. These market risks primarily relate to foreign exchange, interest rate, and commodity related changes. The Company maintains a comprehensive hedging program to manage volatility related to these market exposures. It employs operational, economic, and derivative financial instruments in order to mitigate risk. See Notes 1 and 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Companys use of derivative instruments. Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity By nature of the Companys global operations, it is exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations resulting from foreign exchange rate variation. These exposures are transactional and translational in nature. Since the Company manufactures and sells its products throughout the world, its foreign currency risk is diversified. Principal drivers of this diversified foreign exchange exposure include the Canadian dollar, European euro, Mexican peso, Thai baht, British pound, and Australian dollar. Transactional Exposure The Companys transactional exposure arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than the functional currency of the parent or its subsidiaries. As part of its risk management program, at the end of each fiscal year the Company performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted transactional exposure for the upcoming fiscal year. The analysis utilizes an implied volatility measurement for each currency to estimate the net potential gain or loss. The analysis included the estimated impact of its hedging program, which mitigates the Companys transactional exposure. At June 30, 2007 and 2006, the Company had hedged approximately 46% and 44%, respectively, of its transactional exposures. The following table summarizes the analysis as it relates to the Companys transactional exposure (in millions): 2007 2006 Net estimated transactional exposure $ 667.4 $ 471.4 Sensitivity gain/loss 45.6 39.5 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (20.6 ) (17.3 ) Estimated net gain/loss $ 25.0 $ 22.2 Translational Exposure The Company also has exposure related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign divisions into U.S. dollars, the functional currency of the parent. It performs a similar analysis as described above related to this translational exposure. The Company does not typically hedge any of its translational exposure and no hedging impact was included in the Companys analysis at June 30, 2007 and 2006. The following table summarizes the Companys translational exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10% strengthening or weakening in the U.S. dollar (in millions): 2007 2006 Net estimated translational exposure $ 89.0 $ 93.0 Sensitivity gain/loss 8.9 9.3 Interest Rate Sensitivity The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its borrowing and investing activities to maintain liquidity and fund business operations. The nature and amount of the Companys long term and short term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions and other factors. The Companys policy is to manage exposures to interest rates using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt as deemed appropriate by management. The Company utilizes interest rate swap instruments to mitigate its exposure to interest rate movements. 53 Table of Contents As part of its risk management program, the Company annually performs a sensitivity analysis on its forecasted exposure to interest rates for the following fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. At June 30, 2007 and 2006, the potential increase or decrease in interest expense under this analysis as a result of this hypothetical change was $9.4 million and $6.2 million, respectively. Commodity Price Sensitivity The Company purchases certain commodities for use in its manufacturing processes, which include latex, heating oil, diesel fuel and polystyrene, among others. The Company typically purchases these commodities at market prices, and as a result, is affected by price fluctuations. As part of its risk management program, the Company performs sensitivity analysis on its forecasted commodity exposure for the following fiscal year. At June 30, 2007 and 2006, the Company had not hedged any of these exposures. The table below summarizes the Companys analysis of these forecasted commodity exposures and a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices as of June 30, 2007 and 2006 (in millions): 2007 2006 Estimated commodity exposure $ 251.3 $ 173.7 Sensitivity gain/loss 25.1 17.4 The Company also has exposure to certain energy related commodities, including natural gas and electricity through its normal course of business. These exposures result primarily from operating the Companys distribution, manufacturing, and corporate facilities. In certain deregulated markets, the Company from time to time enters into long term purchase contracts to supply these items at a specific price. 54 
 
