Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, but there are others throughout this document, which may be identified by words such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, will, should, could, would, project, continue, and similar expressions, and include statements reflecting future results or guidance, statements of outlook and expense accruals. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these risks and uncertainties are described below in Item 1A Risk Factors and in Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 10 K. Forward looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this document. Except to the extent required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statement. 1 Table of Contents PART I Item 1: Business General Cardinal Health, Inc. is an Ohio corporation formed in 1979. As used in this report, we, our, us and similar pronouns refer to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. We are a healthcare services company providing products and services that help pharmacies, hospitals, surgery centers, physician offices and other healthcare providers focus on patient care while reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality. Our fiscal year ends on June 30. References to fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 are to the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Except as otherwise specified, information in this Form 10 K is provided as of June 30, 2011. Business Segments The following business discussion is based on our two segments as they were structured for fiscal 2011. Pharmaceutical Segment In the United States, the Pharmaceutical segment: distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical, over the counter healthcare, and consumer products through its pharmaceutical distribution business to retailers (including chain and independent drug stores and pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers), hospitals, and alternate care providers (including mail order pharmacies). This business: maintains prime vendor relationships that streamline the purchasing process resulting in greater efficiency and lower costs for our customers. helps pharmaceutical manufacturers with services including distribution, inventory management, data/reporting, new product launch support, and contract and chargeback administration. operates nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities that manufacture, prepare and deliver radiopharmaceuticals for use in nuclear imaging and other procedures in hospitals and clinics; distributes specialty pharmaceutical products and provides services to pharmaceutical manufacturers, third party payors and healthcare service providers supporting the marketing, distribution, and payment for specialty pharmaceutical products; franchises retail pharmacies under the Medicine Shoppe&reg; and Medicap&reg; brands; and provides pharmacy services to hospitals and other healthcare facilities. In China, the Pharmaceutical segment distributes branded, generic and specialty pharmaceuticals as well as medical, surgical, over the counter and consumer products through our Yong Yu subsidiary. Yong Yu is one of the largest importers of pharmaceuticals into China and reaches a wide range of customers including more than 49,000 hospitals and clinics and more than 123,000 retail outlets. The pharmaceutical distribution business generates gross margin primarily when the aggregate selling price to our customers exceeds the aggregate cost of products sold, net of manufacturer cash discount, branded manufacturer margin, and generic manufacturer margin. Manufacturer cash discounts are price reductions that manufacturers may offer to us for prompt payment of purchased products. 2 Table of Contents Branded manufacturer margin refers to compensation amounts under distribution service agreements with manufacturers and to pharmaceutical price appreciation. Amounts earned under the distribution service agreements compensate us for a range of distribution and related services we provide to manufacturers and consist of a fee based on volume with or without pharmaceutical price appreciation. In addition, a manufacturer may increase its published price for a product after we have purchased that product for inventory. Our contract price for branded pharmaceutical products to customers is based on the manufacturers published price at the time of sale. As such, inventory sold following a manufacturer price increase will be based on the higher manufacturer price. Pharmaceutical price appreciation refers to amounts we earn from selling inventory at these increased prices. Generic manufacturer margin (also referred to as generic margin) refers to price discounts, rebates and other incentives we receive from manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals. Our earnings on generic pharmaceuticals are generally highest during the period immediately following the initial launch of a generic product because generic pharmaceutical selling prices tend to decline over time, although this may vary. Bulk and Non bulk Sales. The Pharmaceutical segment differentiates between bulk and non bulk sales based on the nature of our customers operations. Bulk sales consist of sales to retail chain customers centralized warehouse operations and customers mail order businesses. All other sales, including all sales to customers located in China, are classified as non bulk. Sales to a retail chain pharmacy customer are classified as bulk sales with respect to its warehouse operations and non bulk sales with respect to its retail stores. We formerly referred to bulk sales as bulk customers and non bulk sales as non bulk customers. Other than this change in terminology, we have not changed how we categorize revenue, segment expenses and segment profit with respect to our bulk and non bulk sales. Substantially all bulk sales consist of products shipped in the same form that we receive them from the manufacturer; a small portion of bulk sales are broken down into smaller units prior to shipping. In contrast, non bulk sales require more complex servicing. For non bulk sales, we may receive inventory in large or full case quantities and break it down into smaller quantities, warehouse the product for a longer period of time, pick individual products specific to a customers order, and deliver that smaller order to a customer location. Bulk sales generate significantly lower segment profit as a percentage of revenue than non bulk sales. Customers receive lower pricing on bulk sales of the same products than non bulk sales due to volume pricing in a competitive market and due to lower costs related to the fewer services we provide. In addition, bulk sales in aggregate generate higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue than non bulk sales, because bulk orders consist largely of higher cost branded products. The higher segment cost of products sold as a percentage of revenue for bulk sales is also driven by lower branded manufacturer margin and manufacturer cash discounts due to the mix of branded products in bulk sales. Segment distribution, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses as a percentage of revenue from bulk sales are substantially lower than from non bulk sales because bulk sales require substantially fewer services to be rendered by us than non bulk sales. 3 Table of Contents The following table shows the revenues, segment expenses, segment profit and segment profit as a percentage of revenue for bulk and non bulk sales for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009. (in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Non bulk sales: Revenue from non bulk sales $ 51,815.5 $ 45,795.4 $ 44,134.7 Segment expenses allocated to non bulk sales (1) 50,685.2 44,908.4 43,272.9 Segment profit from non bulk sales (1) 1,130.3 887.0 861.8 Segment profit from non bulk sales as a percentage of revenue from non bulk sales (1) 2.18 % 1.94 % 1.95 % Bulk sales: Revenue from bulk sales $ 41,928.0 $ 43,994.5 $ 43,728.2 Segment expenses allocated to bulk sales (1) 41,793.5 43,879.7 43,554.3 Segment profit from bulk sales (1) 134.5 114.8 173.9 Segment profit from bulk sales as a percentage of revenue from bulk sales (1) 0.32 % 0.26 % 0.40 % (1) Segment expenses and profit required complex and subjective estimates and allocations based upon assumptions, past experience and judgment that we believe are reasonable. In addition, amounts do not include the impact of last in, first out (LIFO) provisions, if any. We had no LIFO provisions in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for Pharmaceutical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009. Medical Segment The Medical segment distributes a broad range of medical, surgical and laboratory products to hospitals, surgery centers, laboratories, physician offices and other healthcare providers in the United States and Canada. This segment also manufactures, sources and develops its own line of private brand medical and surgical products. Manufactured products include: single use surgical drapes, gowns and apparel; exam and surgical gloves; and fluid suction and collection systems. The segment also offers sterile and non sterile procedure kits. Our manufactured products are sold directly or through third party distributors in the United States, Canada, Europe, South America and the Asia/Pacific region. In addition, the segment provides supply chain services, including spend management, distribution management, and inventory management services, to healthcare providers. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for Medical segment revenue, profit and assets for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009. 4 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Divestitures In the past five fiscal years, we completed the following three significant acquisitions apart from businesses spun off as part of CareFusion Corporation (CareFusion), as discussed below. Date (1) Company Location Line of Business Consideration (in millions) July 15, 2010 Healthcare Solutions Holding, LLC (P4 Healthcare) Ellicott City, Maryland Specialty pharmaceutical services $ 598 (2) November 29, 2010 Yong Yu Shanghai, China Pharmaceutical and medical products distribution $ 458 (3) December 21, 2010 Kinray, Inc. (Kinray) Whitestone, New York Pharmaceutical, generic, health and beauty, and home health care products distribution $ 1,336 (1) Represents the date we became the majority shareholder. (2) Includes $506 million in cash and $92 million for the acquisition date fair value of contingent consideration to be paid for the acquisition. (3) Includes the assumption of approximately $57 million in debt. We also completed several smaller acquisitions during the last five fiscal years, including purchasing Borschow Hospital & Medical Supplies, Inc. in fiscal 2009. During the past five fiscal years, we also completed several divestitures, including selling our former Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, other than certain generic focused businesses, for approximately $3.2 billion in cash during fiscal 2007 and selling our United Kingdom based Martindale injectable manufacturing business in fiscal 2010. In addition, effective August 31, 2009, we separated our clinical and medical products businesses through distribution to our shareholders of 81 percent of the then outstanding common stock of CareFusion (the Spin Off). During fiscal 2010, we disposed of 10.9 million shares of CareFusion common stock and during fiscal 2011, we disposed of the remaining 30.5 million shares. VIASYS Healthcare Inc. and Enturia Inc., two significant acquisitions in the last five years, were spun off as part of CareFusion. Customers Our largest customers, Walgreen Co. (Walgreens) and CVS Caremark Corporation (CVS), accounted for approximately 23 percent and 22 percent, respectively, of our revenue for fiscal 2011. The aggregate of our five largest customers, including Walgreens and CVS, accounted for approximately 59 percent of our revenue for fiscal 2011. We have agreements with group purchasing organizations (GPOs) that act as agents to negotiate vendor contracts on behalf of their members. Our two largest GPO relationships in terms of member revenue are with Novation, LLC, and Premier Purchasing Partners, L.P. Arrangements with these two GPOs accounted for approximately 14 percent of our revenue for fiscal 2011. Suppliers We rely on many different suppliers. Products obtained from our five largest suppliers accounted for an aggregate of approximately 22 percent of our revenue during fiscal 2011, but no single suppliers products accounted for more than 5 percent of that revenue. Overall, we believe our relationships with our suppliers are good. 5 Table of Contents The Pharmaceutical distribution business is a party to distribution service agreements with pharmaceutical manufacturers. These agreements generally have terms ranging from one year with an automatic renewal feature to five years. Generally, these agreements are terminable before they expire only if the parties mutually agree, if there is an uncured breach of the agreement, or if one party is the subject of a bankruptcy filing or similar insolvency event. Some agreements allow the manufacturer to terminate the agreement without cause within a defined notice period. Our Pharmaceutical segments nuclear pharmacy services business dispenses several products prepared using a particular radioisotope. During fiscal 2010, it was difficult to acquire sufficient quantities of that radioisotope from third party suppliers because of a continued and prolonged shortage of a critical raw material used to derive that radioisotope. However, the supply of raw material normalized in the first half of fiscal 2011. Competition We operate in a highly competitive environment in the distribution of pharmaceuticals and related healthcare services. We also operate in a highly competitive environment in the development, manufacturing and distribution of medical and surgical products. We compete on many levels, including service offerings, support services, breadth of product lines, and price. In the Pharmaceutical segment, we compete with two other national, full line wholesale distributors (McKesson Corporation and AmerisourceBergen Corporation) and a number of regional wholesale distributors, self warehousing chains, direct selling manufacturers, specialty distributors, third party logistics companies, and nuclear pharmacies, among others. In addition, the Pharmaceutical segment has experienced competition from a number of organizations offering generic pharmaceuticals, including telemarketers. In the Medical segment, we compete with many different distributors, including Owens & Minor, Inc., Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., PSS World Medical, Inc., Henry Schein, Inc., and Medline Industries, Inc. In addition, we compete with regional medical products distributors, third party logistics companies and manufacturers direct distribution. Competitors of the Medical segments manufacturing and procedural kit businesses include Kimberly Clark Corporation, Ansell Limited, DeRoyal Industries Inc., Medline Industries, Inc., M&ouml;lnlycke Health Care, America Contract Sterilization, Professional Hospital Supply and Medical Action Industries. Employees As of June 30, 2011, we had approximately 22,600 employees in the United States and approximately 9,300 employees outside of the United States. Overall, we consider our employee relations to be good. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect our products, services and intangible assets. We hold patents relating to aspects of our distribution operations, including our nuclear pharmacy products and service offerings, and relating to medical and surgical products, such as fluid suction and irrigation devices; surgical waste management systems; surgical and medical examination gloves; surgical drapes, gowns and facial protection products; and patient temperature management products. We also operate under licenses for certain proprietary technologies, and in certain instances we license our technologies to third parties. All of these proprietary rights are important to our operations, but we do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall business. 6 Table of Contents Regulatory Matters Our business is highly regulated in the United States at both the federal and state level and in foreign countries. Depending upon their specific business, our subsidiaries may be subject to regulation by government entities including: the United States Food and Drug Administration (the FDA), the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (the DEA), the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the NRC), the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), United States Customs and Border Protection, state boards of pharmacy, state controlled substance agencies, state health departments, insurance departments or other comparable state agencies, and foreign agencies that are comparable to those listed above. These regulatory agencies have a variety of civil, administrative and criminal sanctions at their disposal. They can require us to suspend distribution of products and controlled substances or initiate product recalls; they can seize products or impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions; and they can seek injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products. Distribution. The FDA, DEA and various state authorities regulate the marketing, purchase, storage and distribution of pharmaceutical and medical products and controlled substances under various state and federal statutes including the Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987. Wholesale distributors of controlled substances must hold valid DEA registrations and state level licenses, meet various security and operating standards, and comply with the Federal Controlled Substances Act governing the sale, marketing, packaging, storage and distribution of controlled substances. Our Pharmaceutical segments China distribution operations are subject to similar national, regional and local regulations, including licensing and regulatory requirements of the China Ministry of Health, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Finance, the State Food and Drug Administration and the General Administration of Customs. Manufacturing and marketing. Our subsidiaries that manufacture and source medical devices are subject to regulation by the FDA and comparable foreign agencies including regulations regarding compliance with good manufacturing practices and quality systems. In addition, our Medical segments international manufacturing operations may be subject to local certification requirements. The FDA and other domestic and foreign governmental agencies administer requirements covering the design, testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacture, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution and post market surveillance of some of our manufactured products. We need specific approval or clearance from regulatory authorities before we can market and sell many of our products in particular countries. Even after we obtain approval or clearance to market a product, the product and our manufacturing processes are subject to continued regulatory review. To assess and facilitate compliance with federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, we routinely review our quality and compliance systems to evaluate their effectiveness and to identify areas for improvement or remediation. As part of our quality review, we assess the suppliers of raw materials, components and finished goods that are incorporated into the medical devices we manufacture. In addition, we conduct quality management reviews designed to highlight key issues that may affect the quality of our products and services. 7 Table of Contents From time to time, we may determine that products we manufacture or market do not meet our specifications, regulatory requirements, or published standards. When we identify a quality or regulatory issue, we investigate and take appropriate corrective action, such as withdrawing the product from the market, correcting the product at the customer location, revising product labeling, and notifying customers. Nuclear pharmacies and related businesses. Our nuclear pharmacies and cyclotron facilities require licenses or permits and must abide by regulations from the NRC, the radiologic health agency or department of health of each state in which we operate, and the state board of pharmacy. In addition, the FDA regulates cyclotron facilities and has issued, effective December 2011, good manufacturing practices regulations for positron emission tomography (PET) drugs. Prescription Drug Pedigree Tracking and Supply Chain Integrity The FDA Amendments Act of 2007 requires the FDA to establish standards to identify and validate technologies for securing the pharmaceutical supply chain against counterfeit drugs. These standards may include track and trace or authentication technologies, such as radio frequency identification devices. In March 2010, the FDA issued guidance establishing standardized numerical identifiers for prescription pharmaceutical packages. Some states have also adopted laws to prevent the introduction of counterfeit, diverted, adulterated or mislabeled pharmaceuticals into the pharmaceutical supply chain. For example, effective July 2016, California requires that pharmaceutical wholesalers and repackagers implement electronic track and trace capabilities for pharmaceutical products. Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws We are subject to extensive and frequently changing laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. Laws and regulations generally prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any compensation in order to induce someone to order or purchase items or services that are in any way paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or other United States government sponsored healthcare programs. They also prohibit submitting or causing to be submitted any fraudulent claim for payment by the federal government. Violations of these laws may result in criminal or civil penalties as well as qui tam claims under the federal False Claims Act and similar state acts under which private persons may file suit on behalf of the federal and state governments. Health and Personal Information Practices Services and products provided by some of our businesses, including our pharmacy services and specialty pharmaceutical businesses, involve access to patient identifiable healthcare information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as augmented by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, as well as some state laws, regulate the use and disclosure of patient identifiable health information, including requiring specified privacy and security measures. Federal and state officials have increasingly focused on how patient identifiable healthcare information should be handled, secured and disclosed. Some of our businesses collect and maintain other personal information that is subject to federal and state laws protecting such information. Security and disclosure of personal information is also highly regulated in many other countries in which we operate. Environmental, Health and Safety Laws In the United States and other countries, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws as well as laws relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices. Laws Relating to Foreign Trade and Operations United States and international laws and regulations require us to abide by standards relating to the import and export of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We also must comply 8 Table of Contents with various export control and trade embargo laws and regulations, which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions within some countries or with some counterparties. Also, we must abide by United States and foreign customs laws and regulations. Similarly, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, foreign anti bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of internal books and records. These laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from offering, promising or making payments to non United States government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Other Information Our distribution businesses are generally not required by our customers to maintain particular inventory levels other than as needed to meet service level requirements. Certain supply contracts with United States government entities require us to maintain sufficient inventory to meet emergency demands, but we do not believe those requirements materially affect inventory levels. Our customer return policies generally require that the product be physically returned, subject to restocking fees. We only allow customers to return products that can be added back to inventory and resold at full value, or that can be returned to vendors for credit. We offer market payment terms to our customers. Revenue and Long Lived Assets by Geographic Area See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for revenue and long lived assets by geographic area. Available Information and Exchange Certifications Our Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website (www.cardinalhealth.com), under the Investors Financials/SEC filings caption, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) where you can search for annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us and other public companies. Item 1A: Risk Factors The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. These are not the only risks we face. Our businesses also could be affected by risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently consider immaterial to our operations. We could suffer the adverse effects of competitive pressures. As described in greater detail in the discussion of our business in Item 1 above, we operate in markets that are highly competitive. Because of competition, our businesses face continued pricing pressure from our customers and suppliers. If we are unable to offset margin reductions caused by these pricing pressures through steps such as enhanced cost control measures, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, in recent years, the healthcare industry has continued to consolidate. Further consolidation among our customers and suppliers (including branded pharmaceutical manufacturers) could give the resulting enterprises greater bargaining power, which may adversely impact our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We have a few large customers that generate a significant amount of our revenue. As described in greater detail in the discussion of our business in Item 1 above, our sales and credit concentration is significant. For example, Walgreens and CVS accounted for approximately 23 percent and 22 percent, respectively, of our revenue for fiscal 2011. The aggregate of our five largest customers, including Walgreens and CVS, accounted for approximately 59 percent of our revenue for fiscal 2011. In addition, Walgreens and CVS accounted for 31 percent and 20 percent, respectively, of our gross trade receivable balance at June 30, 2011. If one or more of our large customers default in payment, terminate or do not renew contracts, or significantly reduce their purchases of our products, our results of operations and financial condition could suffer. The United States healthcare environment is changing in many ways, some of which may not be favorable to us, including changes resulting from federal healthcare legislation. The healthcare industry continues to undergo significant changes designed to increase access to medical care, improve safety and contain costs. Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels have declined; the use of managed care has increased; distributors, manufacturers, healthcare providers and pharmacy chains have consolidated; and large purchasing groups are more prevalent. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively the Healthcare Reform Acts) were enacted. Among other things, the Healthcare Reform Acts seek to expand health insurance coverage to approximately 32 million uninsured Americans. Many of the significant changes in the Healthcare Reform Acts do not take effect until 2014, including a requirement that most Americans carry health insurance. We expect expansion of access to health insurance to increase the demand for our products and services, but other provisions of the Healthcare Reform Acts could affect us adversely. The Healthcare Reform Acts contain many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid. Beginning in 2013, each medical device manufacturer will have to pay a tax in an amount equal to 2.3 percent of the price for which the manufacturer sells its medical devices. We manufacture and sell devices that will be subject to this tax. Additionally, the Healthcare Reform Acts changed the federal upper payment limit for Medicaid reimbursement to no less than 175 percent of the average weighted manufacturers price from 250 percent of the lowest average manufacturers price for generic pharmaceuticals. We could be adversely affected by, among other things, changes in the delivery or pricing of or reimbursement for pharmaceuticals, medical devices or healthcare services. Our business requires consistent, diligent and rigorous compliance with regulatory and licensing requirements. The healthcare industry is highly regulated. As described above in greater detail in the discussion of our business in Item 1, we are subject to regulation in the United States at both the federal and state level and in foreign countries. In addition, the United States federal government and state governments are devoting greater resources to the enforcement of these laws. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, or if allegations are made that we fail to comply, our results of operations and financial condition could suffer. To lawfully operate our businesses, we are required to hold permits, licenses and other regulatory approvals from, and to comply with operating and security standards of, governmental bodies. Failure to maintain or renew, or obtain without significant delay, necessary permits, licenses or approvals, or to comply with required standards, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Products that we manufacture, source, distribute or market are required to comply with regulatory requirements. Noncompliance or concerns over noncompliance could result in product corrective actions, recalls or seizures, warning letters, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution, civil or criminal sanctions, governmental refusal to grant approvals, restrictions on 10 Table of Contents operations, withdrawal of existing approvals and third party claims, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are required to comply with laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud and abuse. If we fail to comply with them, we could be subject to federal or state government investigations, or false claims act proceedings initiated by private parties, which could result in civil judgments and criminal penalties including the loss of licenses or the ability to participate in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. The scope or requirements of these laws or regulations may be interpreted or applied by a regulator, prosecutor or judge in a manner that could negatively impact or require us to change our operations. Our global operations are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti bribery laws in other jurisdictions and with United States and foreign export control, trade embargo and customs laws. If we fail to comply with them, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties. We could be subject to adverse changes in the tax laws or challenges to our tax positions. We are a large multinational corporation with operations in the United States and many foreign countries. As a result, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of many jurisdictions. From time to time, legislative initiatives are proposed, such as the repeal of LIFO (last in, first out) treatment of inventory or the current U.S. taxation of income earned by foreign subsidiaries, that could adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition. Tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Tax authorities have challenged some of our tax positions and it is possible that they will challenge others. These challenges may adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition. Our Pharmaceutical segments margin may be affected by prices established by manufacturers or market forces that are beyond our control. As described in greater detail in the discussion of our business in Item 1, we generate a portion of our branded manufacturer margin from pharmaceutical price appreciation. If branded manufacturers increase prices less frequently or by smaller amounts, we will earn less branded manufacturer margin. In addition, prices for generic pharmaceuticals distributed by our pharmaceutical distribution business have generally declined over time, which could have an adverse effect on our generic manufacturer margin, if not offset by generic pharmaceutical programs, including new product launches. Our business and operations depend on the proper functioning of information systems and critical facilities. We rely on information systems to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to: facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; process payments to suppliers; facilitate the manufacturing and assembly of medical products; and generate financial transactions and information. Our business also depends on the proper functioning of our critical facilities, including our national logistics center. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if these systems or facilities are interrupted, 11 Table of Contents damaged by unforeseen events or actions of third parties, or fail for any extended period of time. Any data security breach could adversely impact our operations, results of operations or our ability to satisfy legal requirements. The Medical segment is working on a medical business transformation project, which includes a new information system for certain supply chain processes. The Medical segment is planning to transition selected processes to the new system throughout fiscal 2012 and 2013. If the system is not effectively implemented or fails to operate as intended, it could adversely affect the Medical segments supply chain operations and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Because of the nature of our business, we may become involved in legal proceedings that could adversely impact our cash flows or results of operations. Due to the nature of our businesses, which includes the manufacture and distribution of healthcare products, we may from time to time become involved in legal proceedings. For instance, some of the products we manufacture or distribute may be alleged to cause personal injury or violate the intellectual property rights of another party, subjecting us to product liability or infringement claims. While we generally obtain indemnity rights from the manufacturers of products we distribute and we carry product liability insurance, it is possible that liability from such claims could exceed those protections. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and the unfavorable resolution of one or more of these legal proceedings could harm our cash flows or results of operations. Acquisitions are not always as successful as we expect them to be. An important element of our growth strategy has been to acquire other businesses that expand or complement our existing businesses. As described above, in fiscal 2011, we acquired Kinray, P4 Healthcare and Yong Yu. Acquisitions involve risks: we may overpay for a business or fail to realize the synergies and other benefits we expect from the acquisition; we may encounter unforeseen accounting or internal control over financial reporting issues; or the acquired business may have regulatory or compliance issues that we did not anticipate. We depend on certain suppliers to make their raw materials and products available to us and are subject to fluctuations in costs of raw materials and products. We depend on the availability of various components, compounds, raw materials and energy (including radioisotopes and oil based resins, cotton, latex, diesel fuel and other commodities) supplied by others for our operations. Any of our supplier relationships could be interrupted due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, or could be terminated. A sustained interruption in the flow of adequate supplies could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, while we have processes to minimize volatility in component and material pricing, we may not be able to successfully manage price fluctuations. Our manufacturing businesses use oil based resins, cotton, latex, and other commodities as raw materials in many products. Prices of oil and gas also affect our distribution and transportation costs. Prices of these commodities are volatile and have fluctuated significantly in recent years, so our costs to produce and distribute our products also have fluctuated. Due to competitive dynamics and contractual limitations, we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we cannot fully offset cost increases through other cost reductions, or recover these costs through price increases or fuel surcharges, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our global operations are subject to economic, political and currency risks. Our global operations are affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession, currency volatility and competition. Political changes can disrupt our supply chain as well as our customers and 12 Table of Contents operating activities in a particular location. We may not be able to enter into hedges or obtain insurance to protect us against these risks, and any hedges that we enter into or insurance that we are able to obtain may be expensive and may not successfully mitigate these risks. Risks associated with the Spin Off. CareFusion may not satisfy all of its contractual obligations. We entered into a number of agreements with CareFusion that govern the rights and obligations of the parties following the Spin Off. We have certain rights under those agreements, including indemnification against certain liabilities allocated to CareFusion. The failure of CareFusion to perform its obligations under the agreements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The transaction may have unexpected tax consequences. In connection with the Spin Off, we received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to the effect that the contribution by us of the assets of the clinical and medical products businesses to CareFusion and the distribution of CareFusion shares to our shareholders would qualify as a tax free transaction under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). In addition, we received opinions of tax counsel to the effect that the Spin Off would qualify as a transaction that is described in Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code. The IRS private letter ruling and the opinions of counsel rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from us and CareFusion regarding the past and future conduct of the companies respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, we and our shareholders may not be able to rely on the IRS ruling or the opinions of tax counsel. Similarly, the IRS could determine on audit that the Spin Off is taxable if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if the IRS disagrees with the conclusions in the opinions of counsel that are not covered by the private letter ruling or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in stock ownership of either Cardinal Health or CareFusion. If the Spin Off is determined to be taxable for United States federal income tax purposes, we and our shareholders that are subject to United States federal income tax could incur significant tax liabilities. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2: Properties In the United States, the Pharmaceutical segment operates 24 pharmaceutical distribution facilities and one national logistics center; four specialty distribution facilities; and 168 nuclear pharmacy laboratory, manufacturing and distribution facilities. The Medical segment operates 50 medical surgical distribution, assembly, manufacturing, and research operation facilities. Our United States operating facilities are located in 45 states and in Puerto Rico. Our Pharmaceutical segment also operates 13 pharmaceutical distribution facilities in China, and our Medical segment operates 17 facilities in Canada, the Dominican Republic, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, and Thailand that engage in manufacturing, distribution or research. We own 67 operating facilities and lease 210 operating facilities. Our principal executive offices are headquartered in an owned four story building located at 7000 Cardinal Place in Dublin, Ohio. We consider our operating properties to be in satisfactory condition and adequate to meet our present needs. However, we regularly evaluate operating properties and may make further additions and improvements or consolidate locations as we seek opportunities to expand our business. 13 Table of Contents Item 3: Legal Proceedings We become involved from time to time in litigation and regulatory matters incidental to our business, including governmental investigations, enforcement actions, personal injury claims, employment matters, commercial disputes, intellectual property matters, disputes regarding environmental clean up costs, litigation in connection with acquisitions and divestitures, and other matters arising out of the normal conduct of our business. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves in such litigation. We do not believe that the outcome of any pending litigation will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. Item 4: Removed and Reserved Executive Officers of the Registrant The following is a list of our executive officers as of August 18, 2011: Name Age Position George S. Barrett 56 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey W. Henderson 46 Chief Financial Officer Michael C. Kaufmann 48 Chief Executive Officer, Pharmaceutical segment Michael A. Lynch 50 Chief Executive Officer, Medical segment Craig S. Morford 52 Chief Legal and Compliance Officer Carole S. Watkins 51 Chief Human Resources Officer Mark R. Blake 40 Executive Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development Stephen T. Falk 46 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary The business experience summaries provided below for our executive officers describe positions held during the last five years (unless otherwise indicated). Mr. Barrett has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since August 2009. From January 2008 to August 2009, he served as Vice Chairman of Cardinal Health and Chief Executive Officer, Healthcare Supply Chain Services. From 1999 until 2007, he held a number of executive positions with Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited, a generic and branded pharmaceutical manufacturer, including President and Chief Executive Officer of Teva North America, Corporate Executive Vice President Global Pharmaceutical Markets and a member of the Office of the Chief Executive Officer, and President of Teva Pharmaceuticals USA. Mr. Henderson has served as Chief Financial Officer since May 2005. Mr. Kaufmann has served as Chief Executive Officer, Pharmaceutical segment, since August 2009. From April 2008 until August 2009, he served as Group President, Pharmaceutical Supply Chain, from April 2007 to April 2008, he was Group President of Healthcare Supply Chain Services Medical segment, and from September 2005 to April 2007, he was Chief Financial Officer of Healthcare Supply Chain Services. Mr. Lynch has served as Chief Executive Officer, Medical segment, since August 2009. From September 2008 until August 2009, he served as Group President, Medical and from July 2004 to September 2008, he was Group President, Medical Products and Technologies. Mr. Morford has served as Chief Legal and Compliance Officer since May 2009. From May 2008 to May 2009, he served as Chief Compliance Officer. From August 2007 to March 2008, he was the Acting Deputy Attorney General of the United States, from October 2006 to July 2007, he was United States Attorney in Nashville, Tennessee, and from March 2005 to October 2006, he was First Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorneys office in Cleveland, Ohio. Ms. Watkins has served as Chief Human Resources Officer since 2000. 14 Table of Contents Mr. Blake has served as Executive Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development since October 2009. From August 2006 until October 2009, he held various business development positions with Medco Health Solutions, Inc., a pharmacy benefits management services company, including Vice President, Business Development and Senior Director, Business Development. Mr. Falk has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since May 2009. From April 2007 to May 2009, he served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Healthcare Supply Chain Services segment and from March 2005 to April 2007, he was Vice President and General Counsel of the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment. 15 Table of Contents PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our Common Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol CAH. The following table reflects the range of the reported high and low closing prices of our Common Shares as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape and the per share dividends declared for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, and from July 1, 2011 through the period ended on August 12, 2011. The stock prices listed in the table below for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 have not been adjusted for the impact of the Spin Off. High Low Dividends Fiscal 2010 Quarter Ended: September 30, 2009 (1) $ 35.63 $ 24.97 $ 0.175 December 31, 2009 32.95 26.22 0.175 March 31, 2010 36.45 31.31 0.175 June 30, 2010 36.45 32.80 0.195 Fiscal 2011 Quarter Ended: September 30, 2010 $ 35.88 $ 29.96 $ 0.195 December 31, 2010 39.11 31.99 0.195 March 31, 2011 42.84 38.58 0.195 June 30, 2011 45.54 40.65 0.215 Fiscal 2012 Through August 12, 2011 $ 46.83 $ 37.99 $ 0.215 (1) On August 31, 2009, each shareholder received 0.5 shares of CareFusion common stock for each of our Common Shares held on August 25, 2009, the record date for the Spin Off. On August 31, 2009, the last trading day before the Spin Off became effective, the closing price of our Common Shares, trading regular way (that is with an entitlement to shares of CareFusion common stock distributed in the Spin Off), was $34.58. On September 1, 2009, the first trading day after the Spin Off, the opening price of our Common Shares was $25.32 per share and the opening price of CareFusion stock was $19.65 per share. These stock prices were as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape. As of August 12, 2011 there were approximately 12,062 shareholders of record of our Common Shares. We anticipate that we will continue to pay quarterly cash dividends in the future. The payment and amount of future dividends remain, however, within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our future earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period TotalNumberof SharesPurchased (1) AveragePricePaid perShare Total Number ofShares Purchased asPart ofPublicly AnnouncedProgram (2) Approximate DollarValue of SharesThat May Yet bePurchased Under theProgram (2) April 1 30, 2011 460 $ 40.99 $ 750,000,000 May 1 31, 2011 1,259 44.64 750,000,000 June 1 30, 2011 1,521 43.91 750,000,000 Total 3,240 $ 43.78 $ 750,000,000 16 Table of Contents (1) Includes 89, 85 and 133 Common Shares purchased in April, May and June 2011, respectively, through a rabbi trust as investments of participants in our Deferred Compensation Plan. Also includes 371, 1,174 and 1,388 restricted shares surrendered in April, May and June 2011, respectively, by employees upon vesting to meet tax withholding. (2) On November 3, 2010, our board of directors approved a new $750 million share repurchase program, which expires on November 30, 2013. During the three months ended June 30, 2011, we did not repurchase any of our Common Shares under this program. Subsequent to June 30, 2011 and through August 12, 2011, we repurchased approximately $300 million of our Common Shares under this program. Performance Graphs We have included two line graphs comparing the cumulative total return of our Common Shares with the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poors Composite 500 Stock Index and the Value Line Health Care Sector Index, an independently prepared index that includes more than 100 companies in the health care industry. The Value Line Health Care Index investment is weighted on the basis of market capitalization at the beginning of each period. The companies in the Value Line Health Care Index are referred to as the Peer Group in the line graphs and accompanying charts. The following graph assumes, in each case, an initial investment of $100 on June 30, 2006, based on the market prices at the end of each fiscal year through and including June 30, 2011, and reinvestment of dividends. We have adjusted the market price of our Common Shares prior to August 31, 2009 to reflect the Spin Off of CareFusion on August 31, 2009. June 30, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Cardinal Health, Inc. 100.00 110.44 81.37 49.03 76.82 105.95 Standard & Poors 500 100.00 120.59 104.77 77.31 88.47 115.62 Peer Group (Value Line Health Care Sector Index) 100.00 111.80 100.84 87.18 95.76 138.02 17 Table of Contents We have included the graph below to show our cumulative total return following the Spin Off of our clinical and medical products business on August 31, 2009. The line graph assumes, in each case, an initial investment of $100 on August 31, 2009 through and including June 30, 2011, and reinvestment of dividends. We have adjusted the market price of our Common Shares on August 31, 2009 to reflect the Spin Off. August 31,2009 June 30,2010 June 30,2011 Cardinal Health, Inc. 100.00 137.61 189.79 Standard & Poors 500 100.00 102.67 134.18 Peer Group (Value Line Health Care Sector Index) 100.00 100.07 144.37 18 Table of Contents Item 6: Selected Financial Data The consolidated financial data include all business combinations as of the date of acquisition that occurred during these periods. The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and related notes and Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. At or for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per common share amounts) Earnings Data: Revenue $ 102,644.2 $ 98,502.8 $ 95,991.5 $ 87,408.2 $ 84,220.4 Earnings from continuing operations 966.2 587.0 758.2 847.2 532.1 Earnings from discontinued operations (1) (7.2 ) 55.2 393.4 453.4 1,399.0 Net earnings $ 959.0 $ 642.2 $ 1,151.6 $ 1,300.6 $ 1,931.1 Basic earnings per Common Share Continuing operations $ 2.77 $ 1.64 $ 2.12 $ 2.37 $ 1.35 Discontinued operations (1) (0.02 ) 0.15 1.10 1.26 3.54 Net basic earnings per Common Share $ 2.75 $ 1.79 $ 3.22 $ 3.63 $ 4.89 Diluted earnings per Common Share Continuing operations $ 2.74 $ 1.62 $ 2.10 $ 2.33 $ 1.31 Discontinued operations (1) (0.02 ) 0.15 1.08 1.24 3.46 Net diluted earnings per Common Share $ 2.72 $ 1.77 $ 3.18 $ 3.57 $ 4.77 Cash dividends declared per Common Share 0.800 0.720 0.595 0.500 0.390 Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 22,845.9 $ 19,990.2 $ 25,118.8 $ 23,448.2 $ 23,153.8 Long term obligations, less current portion and other short term borrowings 2,175.3 1,896.1 3,271.6 3,681.7 3,447.3 Shareholders equity (2) (3) 5,848.6 5,276.1 8,724.7 7,747.5 7,376.9 (1) On August 31, 2009, we separated the clinical and medical products businesses from our other businesses through a pro rata distribution to shareholders of 81 percent of the then outstanding common stock of CareFusion and met the criteria for classification of these businesses as discontinued operations. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we committed to plans to sell our United Kingdom based Martindale injectable manufacturing business within our Pharmaceutical segment, and met the criteria for classification of this business as discontinued operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, we committed to plans to sell our former Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, other than certain generic focused businesses, and met the criteria for classification as discontinued operations. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we adopted new accounting guidance regarding the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements. This accounting guidance provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The cumulative effect of adopting this accounting guidance was a $139 million reduction of retained earnings. (3) As noted above, on August 31, 2009, we completed the distribution to our shareholders of 81 percent of the then outstanding common stock of CareFusion and retained the remaining 41.4 million shares of CareFusion common stock. The distribution of CareFusion common stock to our shareholders resulted in the recognition of a $3.7 billion non cash dividend. 19 Table of Contents Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis presented below refers to, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10 K. Unless otherwise indicated, throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we are referring to our continuing operations. Executive Overview We are a healthcare services company providing pharmaceutical and medical products and services that help pharmacies, hospitals, surgery centers, physician offices and other healthcare providers focus on patient care while reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality. We report our financial results in two segments: Pharmaceutical and Medical. During fiscal 2011, we achieved record revenue of $102.6 billion and increased our operating earnings by 16 percent to $1.5 billion. We also acted on important strategic priorities that will strengthen our long term position. We expanded our retail independent customer base significantly with the Kinray acquisition, created strong growth from our generic pharmaceutical programs, significantly enhanced our specialty business with the P4 Healthcare acquisition, and launched a growth platform in China with our Yong Yu acquisition. During fiscal 2011, our Pharmaceutical segment profit increased by 26 percent, primarily due to strong performance in our generic pharmaceutical programs, including the impact of new product launches, solid performance under our branded manufacturer agreements, and the positive impact of acquisitions. Our Medical segment profit decreased by 14 percent, adversely affected by the increased cost of commodities used in our self manufactured and private brand products. Also during fiscal 2011, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.195 per share, or $0.78 per share on an annualized basis, an increase of 11 percent over fiscal 2010. In May 2011, the board of directors also approved a 10 percent increase in the quarterly dividend beginning in July 2011. Our cash and equivalents balance was $1.9 billion at June 30, 2011, compared to $2.8 billion at June 30, 2010. We used $2.3 billion for acquisitions and received $1.4 billion of net cash provided by operations and $706 million from the sale of our remaining investment in CareFusion. We plan to continue to execute a balanced deployment of available capital to position ourselves for sustainable competitive advantage and to enhance shareholder value. Trends Within our Pharmaceutical segment, we expect branded pharmaceutical price appreciation in fiscal 2012 to be similar to fiscal 2011. We also expect significant new generic pharmaceutical launches in fiscal 2012; however, their impact on our gross margin can vary significantly depending on timing, size, and number of entrants, and may be less in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011. In addition, we expect our recent acquisitions to have a positive year over year impact on revenue and operating earnings. Finally, we may have a negative impact from a LIFO charge in fiscal 2012. Within our Medical segment, variability in the cost of commodities such as oil based resins, cotton, latex, diesel fuel and other commodities can have a significant impact on the cost of products sold. In fiscal 2012, we anticipate a negative year over year impact from higher commodity prices. In addition, given the current economic and healthcare environments, we expect healthcare utilization, including surgical procedures, to remain somewhat sluggish in fiscal 2012. 20 Table of Contents Acquisitions In December 2010, we acquired Kinray for a cash payment of $1.3 billion. This acquisition expanded the ability of our pharmaceutical distribution business to serve retail independent pharmacies in the northeastern United States. In November 2010, we acquired Yong Yu, a leading health care distribution business in China, for $458 million, including the assumption of $57 million in debt. The pharmaceutical market in China is expected to grow significantly faster than the market in the United States over the next few years. In July 2010, we completed the acquisition of P4 Healthcare, a specialty pharmaceutical services company, for a cash payment of $506 million. This acquisition contributes to the expansion of our presence in specialty pharmaceutical services and distribution. The acquisition agreement also included a contingent consideration obligation of up to $150 million over the next three years. Since we completed the acquisition, we have made a cash payment of $10 million for the first measurement period. Subsequent to June 30, 2011, we amended the agreement with the former owners to extend the last measurement period by one year and to reduce the maximum contingent consideration payout to $100 million. At June 30, 2011, we estimate the remaining contingent consideration obligation to have a fair value of $75 million. The three acquisitions are reported within our Pharmaceutical segment. For fiscal 2011, they increased revenues by $2.9 billion and operating earnings by $61 million compared to fiscal 2010. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Kinray, Yong Yu and P4 Healthcare acquisitions. Spin Off of CareFusion Effective August 31, 2009, we separated our clinical and medical products business through the distribution to our shareholders of 81 percent of the then outstanding common stock of CareFusion and retained the remaining 41.4 million shares of CareFusion common stock. During fiscal 2011 and 2010, we disposed of 30.5 million and 10.9 million shares of CareFusion common stock, respectively. On July 22, 2009, we entered into a separation agreement with CareFusion to effect the Spin Off and provide a framework for our relationship with CareFusion after the Spin Off. In addition, on August 31, 2009, we entered into a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement and an accounts receivable factoring agreement with CareFusion, among other agreements. Under the transition services agreement, during fiscal 2011 and 2010, we recognized $65 million and $99 million, respectively, in transition service fees, which approximately offsets the costs associated with providing the transition services. Substantially all of the transition service arrangements expired in fiscal 2011 and early fiscal 2012. We expect that transition service fees in fiscal 2012 will be substantially less than in fiscal 2011 and that the loss of fees in fiscal 2012 will be partially offset by cost reductions. For periods subsequent to fiscal 2012, we have plans in place to largely offset the loss of fees with cost reductions. Under the accounts receivable factoring agreement, during fiscal 2011 and 2010, we purchased $460 million and $606 million, respectively, of CareFusion trade receivables. The accounts receivable factoring arrangement expired on April 1, 2011. Under the tax matters agreement, CareFusion is obligated to indemnify us for certain tax exposures and transaction taxes prior to the Spin Off. The indemnification receivable was $264 million and $245 million at June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and is included in our consolidated financial statements. We expect the transition of our relationship with CareFusion to a traditional distribution model during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 to have a $50 to $60 million per quarter positive impact on medical segment revenue for the first three quarters of fiscal 2012. However, we expect this change to have minimal impact on medical segment profit. 21 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Change Revenue (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 Pharmaceutical 4 % 2 % $ 93,743.5 $ 89,789.9 $ 87,862.9 Medical 2 % 7 % 8,921.5 8,750.1 8,159.3 Total Segment Revenue 4 % 3 % $ 102,665.0 $ 98,540.0 $ 96,022.2 Corporate N.M. N.M. (20.8 ) (37.2 ) (30.7 ) Consolidated Revenues 4 % 3 % $ 102,644.2 $ 98,502.8 $ 95,991.5 Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 Pharmaceutical segment During fiscal 2011, Pharmaceutical revenue was positively impacted by acquisitions, net of divestitures ($2.7 billion) and increased sales to existing customers ($1.8 billion). Revenue was negatively impacted by losses of customers in excess of gains ($584 million). Revenue from bulk sales was $41.9 billion and $44.0 billion for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. During fiscal 2011, revenue from bulk sales decreased 5 percent as a result of the conversion of branded pharmaceuticals to generic pharmaceuticals as well as a shift in sales to certain national chain customers to non bulk from bulk. Revenue from non bulk sales was $51.8 billion and $45.8 billion for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Revenue from non bulk sales increased 13 percent, during fiscal 2011, primarily due to acquisitions and the previously mentioned shift in sales. All sales for Kinray, Yong Yu and P4 Healthcare are non bulk. See Item 1 Business for more information about bulk and non bulk sales. Medical segment Medical revenue was positively impacted during fiscal 2011 by increased volume from existing customers ($354 million). These revenue gains were partially offset by the impact of lost customers in excess of gains ($165 million) and decreased volume as a result of strong demand for flu related products in the prior year ($51 million). Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Pharmaceutical segment Pharmaceutical segment revenue was positively impacted during fiscal 2010 by pharmaceutical price appreciation and increased volume from existing customers (a combined impact of $3.4 billion), partially offset by losses of customers in excess of gains ($1.3 billion). Medical segment Medical segment revenue was positively impacted during fiscal 2010 by increased volume from existing hospital, laboratory and ambulatory care customers ($462 million), driven partially by strong demand for flu related products. Also positively impacting revenue were new products ($74 million) and foreign exchange ($55 million). In addition, in connection with the Spin Off, we recognized previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion of $51 million (prior to the Spin Off, we deferred revenue for products sold to CareFusion businesses until the products were sold to the end customers). Losses of existing customers in excess of gains from new customers reduced revenue by $200 million. 22 Table of Contents Cost of Products Sold Consistent with the increases in revenue, our cost of products sold increased $3.8 billion, or 4 percent, during fiscal 2011 and increased by $2.5 billion, or 3 percent, during fiscal 2010. Gross Margin Change Gross Margin (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 Gross margin 10 % 1 % $ 4,162.0 $ 3,780.7 $ 3,747.5 Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 Pharmaceutical segment Gross margin increased $446 million in fiscal 2011 primarily as a result of the factors listed below. Strong performance in our generic pharmaceutical programs, including the impact of new product launches, increased gross margin by $239 million. Acquisitions, net of divestitures, positively impacted gross margin by $198 million. Increased margin from branded pharmaceutical sales (exclusive of the related volume impact) had a positive impact on gross margin of $72 million. The increase was primarily due to our performance under distribution service agreements and the transition of certain vendors to distribution service agreements. Factors that can influence margin from branded pharmaceutical sales include our service level performance under distribution service agreements; our inventory level and mix; and the magnitude and timing of pharmaceutical price appreciation. Customer pricing changes including rebates (exclusive of the related volume impact) adversely impacted gross margin by $99 million. The adverse impact of these customer pricing changes is partially offset by product mix, sourcing programs and other sources of margin. Medical segment Gross margin decreased $59 million in fiscal 2011 primarily as a result of the factors listed below. Increased cost of oil based resins, cotton, latex, diesel fuel and other commodities used in our self manufactured and private brand products decreased gross margin by $59 million. Increased net sales volume resulted in a $22 million favorable impact to gross margin. In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we realized a one time gain of $14 million as a result of the recognition of previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion. Somewhat sluggish healthcare utilization disproportionately affected surgical procedures and consequently our higher margin products. Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Pharmaceutical segment Gross margin decreased $65 million in fiscal 2010 as a result of the factors listed below. Pricing changes on renewed customer contracts (exclusive of the related volume impact) decreased gross margin by $103 million. In fiscal 2009, Medicine Shoppe offered an alternative franchise model to its franchisees to position the franchise system for future growth. This transformation adversely impacted gross margin by $65 million in fiscal 2010; however, this was partially offset by efficiencies gained within SG&A. 23 Table of Contents Increased margin from branded pharmaceutical sales (exclusive of the related volume impact) had a positive impact on gross margin of $38 million despite the adverse timing impact of the transition of a significant vendor relationship to a distribution service agreement. Sales volume growth in pharmaceutical distribution had a positive impact of $22 million. Within nuclear pharmacy, for fiscal 2010, the negative impact of the isotope supply shortage was largely offset by the use of alternative isotopes and the favorable impact of cost of materials savings from conversion to generic products. However, there was a negative impact in the second half of the year due to the severe shortages we experienced during that period. The favorable impact of various generic pharmaceutical product programs in pharmaceutical distribution was partially offset by lower generic margins due to timing and value of new generic launches. Medical segment Gross margin increased $95 million in fiscal 2010 as a result of the factors listed below. Increased sales volume resulted in a $67 million increase in gross margin. Decreased cost of oil based resins and other commodities favorably impacted gross margin by $36 million. A one time gain of $14 million as a result of the recognition of previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion. Distribution, Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (SG&A) Change SG&A (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 SG&A 8 % 3 % $ 2,594.8 $ 2,408.0 $ 2,333.5 Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 The increase in SG&A in fiscal 2011 was primarily due to acquisitions, net of divestitures ($147 million), which included amortization of acquisition related intangible assets of $67 million and $10 million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. SG&A also included costs related to the Spin Off of $10 million and $11 million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Increased SG&A during fiscal 2010 was primarily due to an increase in our management incentive compensation. In fiscal 2010, we had incentive compensation accruals that were $46 million above plan due to better than expected consolidated performance compared with incentive compensation accruals that were $36 million below plan in fiscal 2009. In addition, we incurred increased spending on strategic projects ($51 million). SG&A expense growth was significantly mitigated by cost control measures instituted in fiscal 2009 and reduced bad debt expense ($25 million). SG&A also included $11 million and $5 million of costs related to the Spin Off for fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. 24 Table of Contents Segment Profit and Operating Earnings Change Segment Profit and OperatingEarnings (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 Pharmaceutical 26 % (3 )% $ 1,264.8 $ 1,001.8 $ 1,035.7 Medical (14 )% 11 % 369.9 427.7 384.9 Total Segment Profit 14 % 1 % 1,634.7 1,429.5 1,420.6 Corporate N.M. N.M. (120.7 ) (122.6 ) (133.2 ) Consolidated Operating Earnings 16 % 2 % $ 1,514.0 $ 1,306.9 $ 1,287.4 Segment Profit We evaluate the performance of the individual segments based upon, among other things, segment profit, which is segment revenue, less segment cost of products sold, less segment SG&A expenses. We do not allocate restructuring and employee severance, acquisition related costs, impairments and (gain)/loss on sale of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, certain investment and other spending to our segments. These costs are retained at Corporate. Investment spending generally includes the first year spend for certain projects which require incremental strategic investments in the form of additional operating expenses. We encourage our segments to identify investment projects which will promote innovation and provide future returns. As approval decisions for such projects are dependent upon executive management, the expenses for such projects are often retained at Corporate. In addition, Spin Off costs included within SG&A are not allocated to our segments. Pharmaceutical segment The principal drivers for fiscal 2011 compared to the prior year were strong performance in our generic pharmaceutical programs, including the impact of new product launches, the positive impact of acquisitions, and increased margin from branded pharmaceutical sales, offset by customer pricing changes. See the gross margin section above for discussion of these items. The principal drivers for the decrease during fiscal 2010 were pricing changes on renewed customer contracts, fewer significant generic pharmaceutical launches than the prior year and the Medicine Shoppe franchise transformation. The decline in segment profit was partially offset by contributions from our generic programs, disciplined cost controls and increased margin from branded pharmaceutical sales. Segment profit from bulk sales increased $20 million in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 and was 11 percent of Pharmaceutical segment profit in both years. Segment profit from non bulk sales increased $243 million in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 and was 89 percent of Pharmaceutical segment profit in both years. The generic pharmaceutical items and acquisitions discussed above primarily impacted segment profit from non bulk sales. Medical segment Compared to the prior year, results for fiscal 2011 were adversely affected by increased cost of commodities used in our self manufactured and private brand products partially offset by increased sales volume. Results also were impacted by the negative year over year impact of recognizing in fiscal 2010 a one time gain related to previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion. The principal drivers for the increase during fiscal 2010 were growth in sales to certain existing customers and decreased cost of raw materials associated with commodity price movements. Results were also positively affected by the one time gain related to previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion. Segment profit growth was partially dampened from increased spending on strategic projects. 25 Table of Contents Consolidated Operating Earnings In addition to revenue, gross margin and SG&A discussed above, operating earnings were impacted by the following: (in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Restructuring and employee severance $ 15.5 $ 90.7 $ 104.7 Acquisition related costs 22.9 8.4 2.8 Impairments and loss on sale of assets 8.6 29.1 13.9 Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net 6.2 (62.4 ) 5.2 Restructuring and employee severance Fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 restructuring and employee severance charges included $7 million, $65 million and $74 million, respectively, of costs arising from the Spin Off. Acquisition related costs During fiscal 2011, net acquisition related costs included $21 million, related to the Kinray, Yong Yu and P4 Healthcare acquisitions. The costs were partially offset by $6 million of income as a result of a decrease in the contingent consideration liability relating to the P4 Healthcare acquisition, which reflects actual performance for the first measurement period and changes in our estimate of performance in future measurement periods. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on this change. Impairments and loss on sale of assets In fiscal 2010, we recognized an impairment charge of $18 million related to the write down of SpecialtyScripts, a business within our Pharmaceutical segment. We completed the sale of SpecialtyScripts during the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net In fiscal 2010, we received income of $41 million resulting from settlement of a class action antitrust claim in which we were a class member. In addition, we received $26 million of income for insurance proceeds released from escrow after litigation, commenced against certain directors and officers in 2004, was resolved. Earnings Before Income Taxes and Discontinued Operations In addition to items discussed above, earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations were impacted by the following: Change Earnings Before Income Taxesand Discontinued Operations (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 Other (income)/expense, net 61 % N.M. $ (21.8 ) $ (13.5 ) $ 13.2 Interest expense, net (18 )% (1 )% 92.8 113.5 114.4 Loss on extinguishment of debt N.M. N.M. 0.0 39.9 0.0 Gain on sale of CareFusion common stock N.M. N.M. (75.3 ) (44.6 ) 0.0 Interest expense, net The decrease in interest expense for fiscal 2011 was primarily due to the favorable impact of interest rate swaps. 26 Table of Contents Loss on extinguishment of debt During fiscal 2010, we recognized a $40 million loss from the early retirement of over $1.1 billion of debt securities through a tender offer. Gain on sale of investment in CareFusion common stock We recognized $75 million and $45 million of income during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to realized gains from the sale of shares of CareFusion common stock. Provision for Income Taxes Generally, fluctuations in the effective tax rate are due to changes within international and United States state effective tax rates resulting from our business mix and discrete items. A reconciliation of the provision based on the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate from continuing operations is as follows for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed disclosure of the effective tax rate reconciliation): Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2011 2010 2009 Provision at Federal statutory rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % State and local income taxes, net of federal benefit 2.2 4.7 1.8 Change in measurement of an uncertain tax position 2.4 1.3 0.0 Foreign tax rate differential (2.5 ) (3.3 ) (3.8 ) Unremitted foreign earnings (0.1 ) 13.9 0.0 Valuation allowances (0.6 ) (2.3 ) (3.1 ) Other 0.0 2.3 4.7 Effective income tax rate 36.4 % 51.6 % 34.6 % Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 The effective tax rate was favorably impacted by $28 million, or 1.9 percentage points, attributable to recognizing no income tax expense on the sale of CareFusion stock due to the release of a previously established deferred tax valuation allowance. An unfavorable charge attributable to earnings no longer indefinitely invested offshore in fiscal 2010 favorably impacted the year over year comparison of the effective tax rate (see below). Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 The effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted by a charge of $168 million, or 13.9 percentage points, attributable to earnings no longer indefinitely invested offshore. The fiscal 2010 effective tax rate was also unfavorably impacted by 1.8 percentage points due to changes in our business mix resulting from the Spin Off which resulted in a higher percentage of our pretax income being generated in the United States than in lower tax rate international jurisdictions. A favorable audit settlement with a state taxing authority in fiscal 2009 also unfavorably impacted the year over year comparison of the effective tax rate. Ongoing Audits The IRS is currently conducting audits of fiscal years 2001 through 2010. We have received proposed adjustments from the IRS related to our transfer pricing arrangements between foreign and domestic subsidiaries and the transfer of intellectual property among subsidiaries of an acquired entity prior to its acquisition by us. The IRS proposed additional taxes of $849 million, excluding penalties and interest. If this tax ultimately must be 27 Table of Contents paid, CareFusion is liable under the tax matters agreement for $592 million of the total amount. We disagree with these proposed adjustments and intend to vigorously contest them, and we believe our accruals for these matters are adequate. Earnings/(Loss) from Discontinued Operations CareFusion operating results are included within earnings from discontinued operations for all periods through the date of the Spin Off, and had a significant impact on earnings from discontinued operations for fiscal 2010 and 2009. See Note 5 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on discontinued operations. Recent Developments In late August 2011, the FDA notified us that it was halting entry into the United States of all procedure kits that we assemble in Mexico and import at El Paso, Texas (Imported Kits). The FDA indicated that we had not supplied adequate documentary support for certain components of the Imported Kits, but has not indicated any concerns about patient safety. We are working with the FDA to address their concerns, and, in the interim, are implementing steps to mitigate the impact to customers and our business, including shifting assembly of kits to facilities in the United States. Sales of the Imported Kits were approximately 5 percent of Medical segment revenue in fiscal 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources We currently believe that, based upon available capital resources (cash on hand), projected operating cash flow, and access to committed credit facilities, we have adequate capital resources to fund working capital needs, currently anticipated capital expenditures, business growth and expansion, contractual obligations, current and projected debt service requirements, dividends and share repurchases. During fiscal 2011, we acquired Kinray, Yong Yu and P4 Healthcare with cash on hand. If we decide to engage in one or more additional acquisitions, depending on the size and timing of such transactions, we may need supplemental funding. Capital Resources Cash and Equivalents Our cash and equivalents balance was $1.9 billion at June 30, 2011, compared to $2.8 billion at June 30, 2010. At June 30, 2011, our cash and cash equivalents were held in cash depository accounts with major banks around the world or invested in high quality, short term liquid investments. The decrease was primarily driven by acquisitions, offset by net cash provided by operating activities (which is primarily driven by net earnings and working capital), and the sale of our remaining investment in CareFusion. Changes in working capital can vary significantly depending on factors such as the timing of inventory purchases, customer payments of accounts receivable, and payments to vendors during the regular course of business. We use days sales outstanding (DSO), days inventory on hand (DIOH) and days payable outstanding (DPO) to evaluate our working capital performance. DSO is calculated as trade receivables, net divided by average daily revenue during the last month of the reporting period. DIOH is calculated as inventories divided by average daily cost of products sold and chargeback billings during the last quarter of the reporting period. DPO is calculated as accounts payable divided by average daily cost of products sold and chargeback billings during the last quarter of the reporting period. Chargeback billings are the difference between a products wholesale acquisition cost and the contract price established between the vendors and the end customer. Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2011 2010 2009 Days sales outstanding 20.3 18.6 19.1 Days inventory on hand 22.5 21.5 23.1 Days payable outstanding 34.8 32.1 30.5 28 Table of Contents The increase in DSO in fiscal 2011 was driven by the impact of acquisitions and the increase in DPO was due to the timing of payments to vendors during the regular course of business. The decrease in DSO in fiscal 2010 was driven by focused efforts to manage customer accounts and reduce delinquency rates. The significant improvement in DIOH in fiscal 2010 was largely due to enhanced efficiency in our supply chain operations to reduce inventory requirements. The change in DPO during fiscal 2010 was largely driven by a change in payable terms with a supplier in our Pharmaceutical segment. During fiscal 2011, we deployed $2.3 billion of cash on acquisitions, $291 million on capital expenditures, $274 million on dividends and $270 million on share repurchases. During fiscal 2011, we received $706 million in proceeds from sale of CareFusion common stock. During fiscal 2010, we deployed $260 million of cash on capital expenditures, $253 million on dividends and $230 million on share repurchases (an additional $20 million repurchased during fiscal 2010 settled during the first quarter of 2011). During fiscal 2010, we received $271 million in proceeds from sale of CareFusion common stock and $154 million from the divestitures of our Martindale business in the United Kingdom and SpecialtyScripts. In addition, we completed a debt tender resulting in the purchase of more than $1.1 billion debt securities using cash of $1.4 billion distributed to us from CareFusion in connection with the Spin Off. Additionally, in October 2009, we repaid our $350 million floating rate notes at maturity. The cash and equivalents balance at the end of fiscal 2011 included $266 million of cash held by subsidiaries outside of the United States. Although the vast majority of this cash is available for repatriation, permanently bringing the money into the United States could trigger U.S. federal, state and local income tax obligations. As a U.S. parent company, we may temporarily access cash held by our foreign subsidiaries without becoming subject to U.S. federal income tax through intercompany loans. The net cash provided by discontinued operations for fiscal 2010 of $1.4 billion primarily reflected permanent financing obtained by CareFusion prior to the Spin Off offset by $90 million cash funding provided by us to CareFusion pursuant to the Spin Off separation agreement. Net cash provided by/(used in) discontinued operations for fiscal 2009 of $341 million primarily related to the earnings and changes in working capital for CareFusion. Ownership of Shares of CareFusion Common Stock During fiscal 2011 and 2010, we disposed of 30.5 million and 10.9 million shares of CareFusion common stock for cash proceeds of $706 million and $271 million, respectively. Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Our sources of liquidity include a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility and a $950 million committed receivables sales facility program. During fiscal 2011, we replaced our prior revolving credit facility with a new $1.5 billion facility that expires in May 2016 and amended the committed receivables sales facility program to extend its term to November 2012. We also have a commercial paper program of up to $1.5 billion, backed by the revolving credit facility. We had no outstanding borrowings from the commercial paper program and no outstanding balance under the committed receivables sales facility program at June 30, 2011. Our ability to access the commercial paper market is limited based on our current credit rating from Moodys Investor Services. Our revolving credit facility and committed receivables sales facility require us to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio, as of any fiscal quarter end, of at least 4 to 1 and a consolidated leverage ratio of no more than 3.25 to 1. As of June 30, 2011, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. 29 Table of Contents Held to Maturity Investments We hold high quality investment grade held to maturity fixed income debt securities with an amortized cost basis of $142 million as of June 30, 2011. These investments vary in maturity date, ranging from three months to sixteen months, and pay interest semi annually. Long term Obligations As of June 30, 2011, we had total long term obligations of $2.5 billion compared to $2.1 billion at June 30, 2010. In December 2010, we sold $500 million of fixed rate notes due 2020 in a registered offering. The 2020 Notes mature on December 15, 2020 and accrue interest at 4.625% per year payable semi annually. We used the proceeds for general corporate purposes and for the repayment of $220 million of our 6.75% Notes due February 15, 2011. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $291 million, $260 million and $421 million, respectively, primarily related to information technology projects and investments to improve the efficiency of our distribution facilities. We expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 to be generally in line with the level of spending in fiscal 2011. We anticipate that we will be able to fund these expenditures through cash provided by operating activities. Fiscal 2012 capital expenditures will be largely focused on information technology projects. Dividends During fiscal 2011, we paid quarterly dividends of $0.195 per share, or $0.78 per share on an annualized basis, an increase of 11 percent from fiscal 2010. On May 4, 2011, our board of directors approved a 10 percent increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.215 per share, or $0.86 per share on an annualized basis, payable on July 15, 2011 to shareholders of record on July 1, 2011. On August 3, 2011, our board of directors approved our 108th consecutive regular quarterly dividend. Share Repurchases During fiscal 2011, we repurchased $250 million of our Common Shares. During fiscal 2010, we repurchased $250 million of our Common Shares, of which $20 million cash settled in July 2010. Subsequent to June 30, 2011 and through August 12, 2011, we repurchased approximately $300 million of our Common Shares. We funded the repurchases with available cash. We have $450 million remaining under our current Board repurchase authorization through November 2013. Interest Rate and Currency Risk Management We use foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity swaps to manage our exposure to cash flow variability. We also use foreign currency forward contracts to protect the value of our existing foreign currency assets and liabilities and interest rate swaps to protect the value of our debt. See Item 7A below as well as Notes 1 and 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives as well as foreign currency, interest rate and commodity exposures. 30 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2011, our contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows: (in millions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total On Balance Sheet: Long term debt (1) $ 325.2 $ 308.5 $ 532.8 $ 1,330.6 $ 2,497.1 Interest on long term debt 106.3 175.0 167.7 239.6 688.6 Capital lease obligations (2) 1.8 3.9 0.0 0.0 5.7 Other long term liabilities (3) 5.5 0.0 2.0 0.0 7.5 Off Balance Sheet: Operating leases (4) 72.2 96.7 46.6 39.3 254.8 Purchase obligations (5) 153.4 73.2 13.7 5.8 246.1 Total contractual obligations $ 664.4 $ 657.3 $ 762.8 $ 1,615.3 $ 3,699.8 (1) Represents maturities of our long term debt obligations excluding capital lease obligations described below. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (2) Represents maturities of our capital lease obligations included within long term debt on our consolidated balance sheet and the related estimated future interest payments. (3) Represents cash outflows by period for certain of our long term liabilities in which cash outflows could be reasonably estimated. Certain long term liabilities, such as unrecognized tax benefits and deferred taxes, have been excluded from the table above because of the inherent uncertainty of the underlying tax positions or because of the inability to reasonably estimate the timing of any cash outflows. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of income taxes. (4) Represents minimum rental payments and the related estimated future interest payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms as described in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (5) Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and specifying all significant terms, including the following: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which we are obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally canceled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from our total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. Our acquisition of P4 Healthcare during fiscal 2011 involves the potential payment of contingent consideration. The table above does not reflect any such obligation, as the timing and amount are uncertain. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the maximum potential amount of future contingent consideration we could be required to pay associated with this acquisition. Recent Financial Accounting Standards See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards. Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that (i) can have a significant impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations for continuing operations and (ii) require use of 31 Table of Contents complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Other companies applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Because our estimates are inherently uncertain, actual results may differ. In this section, we describe the policies applied in preparing our consolidated financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Trade receivables amounts owed to us through our operating activities are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. We also provide financing to various customers. Such financing arrangements range from 90 days to 10 years at interest rates that generally are subject to fluctuation. Financings may be collateralized, guaranteed by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivables are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and are included in other assets. We must use judgment when deciding whether to extend credit and when calculating the required allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts includes portfolio and specific reserves. We determine the appropriate allowance by reviewing accounts receivable aging, industry trends, customer financial strength and credit standing, historical write off trends and payment history. We also regularly evaluate how changes in economic conditions may affect credit risks. Reserve methodologies are assessed annually based on historical losses and economic, business and market trends. In addition, reserves are reviewed quarterly and updated if appropriate. We may adjust the allowance for doubtful accounts if changes in customers financial condition or general economic conditions make defaults more frequent or severe. The following table gives information regarding the allowance for doubtful accounts over the past three fiscal years. Fiscal yearended June 30, Allowance fordoubtful accounts(in millions) Allowance asa percentageof customerreceivables Allowance asa percentageof revenue Reduction toallowance for customerdeductions andwrite offs (in millions) Addition to Allowance(in millions) 2011 $ 150.0 2.4 % 0.15 % $ 21.9 $ 27.2 2010 $ 140.1 2.6 % 0.14 % $ 8.5 $ 26.8 2009 $ 117.6 2.2 % 0.12 % $ 48.3 $ 51.4 A hypothetical 0.1 percent increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables, sales type leases and finance notes receivables at June 30, 2011, would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $6 million. We believe the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal 2011 are appropriate. At this time, we are not aware of any analytical findings or customer issues that might lead to a significant future increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net revenue. Inventories A substantial portion of inventories (70 percent at June 30, 2011, and 73 percent at June 30, 2010) is stated at the lower of cost, using the LIFO (last in, first out) method, or market. These are primarily merchandise inventories at the core pharmaceutical distribution facilities within our Pharmaceutical segment. The LIFO impact on the consolidated statements of earnings in a given year depends on pharmaceutical price appreciation and the level of inventory. Prices for branded pharmaceuticals tend to rise, which results in an increase in cost of products sold, whereas prices for generic pharmaceuticals tend to decline, which results in a decrease in cost of products sold. 32 Table of Contents The LIFO method presumes that the most recent inventory purchases are the first items sold, so LIFO helps us better match current costs and revenue. Using LIFO, if branded pharmaceutical inventory levels decline, the result generally will be a decrease in future cost of products sold: prices for branded pharmaceuticals tend to rise over time, so our older inventory is held at a lower cost. Conversely, if generic pharmaceutical inventory levels decline, future cost of products sold generally will increase: prices for generic pharmaceuticals tend to decline over time, so our older inventory is held at a higher cost. We believe that the average cost method of inventory valuation reasonably approximates the current cost of replacing inventory within the Pharmaceutical distribution facilities. Accordingly, the LIFO reserve is the difference between (a) inventory at the lower of LIFO cost or market and (b) inventory at replacement cost determined using the average cost method of inventory valuation. In fiscal 2011 and 2010, we did not record any LIFO reserve reductions. The remaining inventory is stated at the lower of cost, using the FIFO (first in, first out) method, or market. If we had used the average cost method of inventory valuation for all inventory within the Pharmaceutical distribution facilities, the value of inventories would not have changed in fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2010. Primarily because prices for our generic pharmaceutical inventories have continued to decline, inventories at LIFO were $8 million and $38 million higher than the average cost value as of June 30, 2011, and 2010, respectively. We do not record inventories in excess of replacement cost. Inventories recorded on the consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory, which were $40 million at June 30, 2011, and $34 million at June 30, 2010. We determine reserves for inventory obsolescence based on historical experience, sales trends, specific categories of inventory and age of on hand inventory. If actual conditions are less favorable than our assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required. Business Combinations The purchase price of an acquired business is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition, including identifiable intangible assets. When an acquisition involves contingent consideration, we recognize a liability equal to the fair value of the contingent consideration obligation at the date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. We base the fair values of identifiable intangible assets on detailed valuations that require management to make significant judgments, estimates and assumptions. Critical estimates and assumptions include: expected future cash flows for trade names, customer relationships and other identifiable intangible assets; discount rates that reflect the risk factors associated with future cash flows; and estimates of useful lives. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our acquisitions, including the contingent consideration related to the P4 Healthcare acquisition. Goodwill and Other Intangibles Purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Intangible assets with finite lives primarily customer relationships and patents and trademarks continue to be amortized over their useful lives. Impairment testing involves a comparison of estimated fair value to the respective carrying amount. If estimated fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value, then a second step is performed to determine the amount of impairment which would be recorded as an expense to our results of operations. Application of goodwill impairment testing involves judgment, including but not limited to, the identification of reporting units and estimating the fair value of each reporting unit. A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. In fiscal 2011, we identified four reporting 33 Table of Contents units: Pharmaceutical segment (excluding our nuclear and pharmacy services division and Yong Yu division); Medical segment; nuclear and pharmacy services division; and Yong Yu division. Fair values can be determined using market, income or cost based approaches. Our determination of estimated fair value of the reporting units is based on a combination of income based and market based approaches. Under the market based approach we determine fair value by comparing our reporting units to similar businesses, or guideline companies whose securities are actively traded in public markets. Under the income based approach, we use a discounted cash flow model in which cash flows anticipated over several periods, plus a terminal value at the end of that time horizon, are discounted to their present value using an appropriate rate of return. To further confirm the fair value, we compare our aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our market capitalization. The use of alternate estimates and assumptions or changes in the industry or peer groups could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit and potentially result in goodwill impairment. We performed annual impairment testing in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 and concluded that there were no impairments of goodwill as the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill and other intangible assets. If we alter our impairment testing by increasing the discount rate in the discounted cash flow analysis by 1 percent, there still would not be any impairment indicated for any of our reporting units for fiscal 2011, 2010 or 2009. Vendor Reserves In the ordinary course of business, our vendors may dispute deductions taken against payments otherwise due to them or assert other billing disputes. These disputed transactions are researched and resolved based upon our policy and findings of the research performed. At any given time, there are outstanding items in various stages of research and resolution. In determining appropriate reserves for areas of exposure with our vendors, we assess historical experience and current outstanding claims. We have established various levels of reserves based on the type of claim and status of review. Though the transaction types are relatively consistent, we periodically refine our estimate methodology by updating the reserve estimate percentages to reflect actual historical experience. Changes to the estimate percentages affect the cost of products sold in the period in which the change was made. Vendor reserves were $41 million and $28 million at June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Approximately 65 percent of the vendor reserve at June 30, 2011, pertained to the Pharmaceutical segment, compared to 59 percent at the end of fiscal 2010. The reserve balance will fluctuate due to variations of outstanding claims from period to period, timing of settlements, and specific vendor issues, such as bankruptcies. The ultimate outcome of specific claims may be different than our original estimate and may require adjustment. We believe, however, that reserves recorded for such disputes are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and unrecognized tax benefits reflect managements assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the consolidated financial statements. 34 Table of Contents Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. The following table presents information about our tax position: Fiscalyear endedJune 30, Net deferred income taxassets (in millions) Net deferred income taxliabilities (in billions) Net loss and credit carryforwardsincluded in net deferred incometax assets (in millions) Net valuation allowance(in millions) againstdeferred tax assets (1) 2011 $ 543 $ 1.4 $ 190 $ 158 2010 $ 578 $ 1.2 $ 197 $ 183 (1) This valuation allowance primarily relates to federal, state and international loss carryforwards for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. Expiring carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted annually. After applying the valuation allowances, we do not anticipate any limitations on our use of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described above. We believe that our estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and unrecognized tax benefits are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, other companies applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. The amount we ultimately pay when matters are resolved may differ from the amounts accrued. Tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed disclosure of the unrecognized tax benefits). If any of our assumptions or estimates were to change, an increase or decrease in our effective tax rate by 1 percent on earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations would have caused income tax expense to increase or decrease by $15 million for fiscal 2011. Share based Compensation All share based payments to employees, including grants of options, are recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. The fair value of stock options is determined using a lattice valuation model. We believe the lattice model provides for better estimates because it has the ability to take into account employee exercise patterns based on changes in our stock price and other variables and it provides for a range of input assumptions. During fiscal 2011 and 2010, we calculated separate option valuations for two separate groups of employees. During fiscal 2009, we calculated separate option valuations for three separate groups of employees. The groups were determined using similar historical exercise behaviors. The expected life of the options granted was calculated from the option valuation model and represents the length of time in years that the options granted are expected to be outstanding. Expected volatilities are based on implied volatility from traded options on our Common Shares and historical volatility over a period of time commensurate with the contractual term of the option grant (7 years). As required, the forfeiture estimates will be adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures when an award vests. The actual forfeitures in future reporting periods could be higher or lower than our current estimates. 35 Table of Contents Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Our businesses are exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations as a result of certain market risks. These market risks primarily relate to foreign exchange, interest rate, and commodity price related changes. We maintain a hedging program to manage volatility related to these market exposures which employs operational, economic, and derivative financial instruments in order to mitigate risk. See Notes 1 and 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our use of derivative instruments. Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity By nature of our global operations, our businesses are exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations resulting from foreign exchange rate variation. These exposures are transactional and translational in nature. Principal drivers of this foreign exchange exposure include the Canadian dollar, European euro, Mexican peso, and Thai baht. Transactional Exposure Our businesses transactional exposure arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than our functional currency or the functional currency of our subsidiaries. As part of our risk management program, at the end of each fiscal year we perform a sensitivity analysis on our forecasted transactional exposure for the upcoming fiscal year. The fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 analyses utilize a currency portfolio model, encompassing both implied volatility and historical correlation to estimate the net potential gain or loss. These analyses included the estimated impact of our hedging program, which mitigates our businesses transactional exposure. At each of June 30, 2011 and 2010, we had hedged approximately 45 percent of our businesses transactional exposures. The following table summarizes the analysis as it relates to our businesses transactional exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent increase or decrease: (in millions) 2011 2010 Net estimated transactional exposure $ 373.9 $ 318.9 Sensitivity gain/loss $ 37.4 $ 31.9 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (14.0 ) (17.8 ) Estimated net gain/loss $ 23.4 $ 14.1 Translational Exposure We have exposure related to the translation of financial statements of our foreign operations into U.S. dollars, our functional currency. We perform a similar analysis as described above related to this translational exposure. We do not typically hedge any of our translational exposure and no hedging impact was included in our analysis at June 30, 2011 and 2010. The following table summarizes our businesses translational exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening or weakening in the U.S. dollar: (in millions) 2011 2010 Net estimated translational exposure $ 54.0 $ 35.3 Sensitivity gain/loss $ 5.4 $ 3.5 Interest Rate Sensitivity We are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of our borrowing and investing activities to maintain liquidity and fund business operations. The nature and amount of our long term and short term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions and other factors. Our policy is to manage exposures to interest rates using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt as deemed appropriate by management. We utilize interest rate swap instruments to mitigate our exposure to interest rate movements. 36 Table of Contents As part of our risk management program, we perform an annual sensitivity analysis on our forecasted exposure to interest rates for the following fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 10 percent change in interest rates. At June 30, 2011 and 2010, the potential increase or decrease in annual interest expense under this analysis as a result of this hypothetical change was $0.4 million and $0.3 million, respectively. Commodity Price Sensitivity We are exposed to market price changes for commodities, including oil based resins, cotton, latex, and diesel fuel. We typically purchase raw materials at market prices and some finished goods at prices based in part on a commodity price index. As part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analysis on our forecasted commodity exposure for the following fiscal year. Our forecasted commodity exposure as of June 30, 2011 increased from the prior year primarily as a result of contract adjustments with vendors, volatility of commodity prices, changes in purchasing volumes and changes in the mix of items we buy. We have updated the prior year comparable commodity exposure to include all items meeting this criteria. At June 30, 2011 and 2010, we had hedged a portion of these commodity exposures (see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). The table below summarizes our analysis of these forecasted commodity exposures and a hypothetical 10 percent fluctuation in commodity prices as of June 30, 2011 and 2010: (in millions) 2011 2010 Estimated commodity exposure $ 472.8 $ 362.3 Sensitivity gain/loss 47.2 36.2 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (2.1 ) (1.2 ) Estimated net gain/loss $ 45.1 $ 35.1 We also have additional exposure to commodities through the purchase of finished goods and various other energy related commodities, including natural gas and electricity through our normal course of business where our contracts are not directly tied to a commodity index. We believe our total gross range of exposure to commodities, including the items listed in the table above, is $500 million to $600 million as of June 30, 2012. 37 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. At or for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 (In millions, except per common share amounts) Earnings Data: Revenue $ 102,644.2 $ 98,502.8 $ 95,991.5 $ 87,408.2 $ 84,220.4 Earnings from continuing operations 966.2 587.0 758.2 847.2 532.1 Earnings from discontinued operations (1) (7.2 ) 55.2 393.4 453.4 1,399.0 Net earnings $ 959.0 $ 642.2 $ 1,151.6 $ 1,300.6 $ 1,931.1 Basic earnings per Common Share Continuing operations $ 2.77 $ 1.64 $ 2.12 $ 2.37 $ 1.35 Discontinued operations (1) (0.02 ) 0.15 1.10 1.26 3.54 Net basic earnings per Common Share $ 2.75 $ 1.79 $ 3.22 $ 3.63 $ 4.89 Diluted earnings per Common Share Continuing operations $ 2.74 $ 1.62 $ 2.10 $ 2.33 $ 1.31 Discontinued operations (1) (0.02 ) 0.15 1.08 1.24 3.46 Net diluted earnings per Common Share $ 2.72 $ 1.77 $ 3.18 $ 3.57 $ 4.77 Cash dividends declared per Common Share 0.800 0.720 0.595 0.500 0.390 Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 22,845.9 $ 19,990.2 $ 25,118.8 $ 23,448.2 $ 23,153.8 Long term obligations, less current portion and other short term borrowings 2,175.3 1,896.1 3,271.6 3,681.7 3,447.3 Shareholders equity (2) (3) 5,848.6 5,276.1 8,724.7 7,747.5 7,376.9 (1) On August 31, 2009, we separated the clinical and medical products businesses from our other businesses through a pro rata distribution to shareholders of 81 percent of the then outstanding common stock of CareFusion and met the criteria for classification of these businesses as discontinued operations. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we committed to plans to sell our United Kingdom based Martindale injectable manufacturing business within our Pharmaceutical segment, and met the criteria for classification of this business as discontinued operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2007, we committed to plans to sell our former Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, other than certain generic focused businesses, and met the criteria for classification as discontinued operations. For additional information regarding discontinued operations, see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we adopted new accounting guidance regarding the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements. This accounting guidance provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The cumulative effect of adopting this accounting guidance was a $139 million reduction of retained earnings. (3) As noted above, on August 31, 2009, we completed the distribution to our shareholders of 81 percent of the then outstanding common stock of CareFusion and retained the remaining 41.4 million shares of CareFusion common stock. The distribution of CareFusion common stock to our shareholders resulted in the recognition of a $3.7 billion non cash dividend. 19 Table of Contents Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis presented below refers to, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10 K. Unless otherwise indicated, throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we are referring to our continuing operations. Executive Overview We are a healthcare services company providing pharmaceutical and medical products and services that help pharmacies, hospitals, surgery centers, physician offices and other healthcare providers focus on patient care while reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality. We report our financial results in two segments: Pharmaceutical and Medical. During fiscal 2011, we achieved record revenue of $102.6 billion and increased our operating earnings by 16 percent to $1.5 billion. We also acted on important strategic priorities that will strengthen our long term position. We expanded our retail independent customer base significantly with the Kinray acquisition, created strong growth from our generic pharmaceutical programs, significantly enhanced our specialty business with the P4 Healthcare acquisition, and launched a growth platform in China with our Yong Yu acquisition. During fiscal 2011, our Pharmaceutical segment profit increased by 26 percent, primarily due to strong performance in our generic pharmaceutical programs, including the impact of new product launches, solid performance under our branded manufacturer agreements, and the positive impact of acquisitions. Our Medical segment profit decreased by 14 percent, adversely affected by the increased cost of commodities used in our self manufactured and private brand products. Also during fiscal 2011, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.195 per share, or $0.78 per share on an annualized basis, an increase of 11 percent over fiscal 2010. In May 2011, the board of directors also approved a 10 percent increase in the quarterly dividend beginning in July 2011. Our cash and equivalents balance was $1.9 billion at June 30, 2011, compared to $2.8 billion at June 30, 2010. We used $2.3 billion for acquisitions and received $1.4 billion of net cash provided by operations and $706 million from the sale of our remaining investment in CareFusion. We plan to continue to execute a balanced deployment of available capital to position ourselves for sustainable competitive advantage and to enhance shareholder value. Trends Within our Pharmaceutical segment, we expect branded pharmaceutical price appreciation in fiscal 2012 to be similar to fiscal 2011. We also expect significant new generic pharmaceutical launches in fiscal 2012; however, their impact on our gross margin can vary significantly depending on timing, size, and number of entrants, and may be less in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011. In addition, we expect our recent acquisitions to have a positive year over year impact on revenue and operating earnings. Finally, we may have a negative impact from a LIFO charge in fiscal 2012. Within our Medical segment, variability in the cost of commodities such as oil based resins, cotton, latex, diesel fuel and other commodities can have a significant impact on the cost of products sold. In fiscal 2012, we anticipate a negative year over year impact from higher commodity prices. In addition, given the current economic and healthcare environments, we expect healthcare utilization, including surgical procedures, to remain somewhat sluggish in fiscal 2012. 20 Table of Contents Acquisitions In December 2010, we acquired Kinray for a cash payment of $1.3 billion. This acquisition expanded the ability of our pharmaceutical distribution business to serve retail independent pharmacies in the northeastern United States. In November 2010, we acquired Yong Yu, a leading health care distribution business in China, for $458 million, including the assumption of $57 million in debt. The pharmaceutical market in China is expected to grow significantly faster than the market in the United States over the next few years. In July 2010, we completed the acquisition of P4 Healthcare, a specialty pharmaceutical services company, for a cash payment of $506 million. This acquisition contributes to the expansion of our presence in specialty pharmaceutical services and distribution. The acquisition agreement also included a contingent consideration obligation of up to $150 million over the next three years. Since we completed the acquisition, we have made a cash payment of $10 million for the first measurement period. Subsequent to June 30, 2011, we amended the agreement with the former owners to extend the last measurement period by one year and to reduce the maximum contingent consideration payout to $100 million. At June 30, 2011, we estimate the remaining contingent consideration obligation to have a fair value of $75 million. The three acquisitions are reported within our Pharmaceutical segment. For fiscal 2011, they increased revenues by $2.9 billion and operating earnings by $61 million compared to fiscal 2010. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Kinray, Yong Yu and P4 Healthcare acquisitions. Spin Off of CareFusion Effective August 31, 2009, we separated our clinical and medical products business through the distribution to our shareholders of 81 percent of the then outstanding common stock of CareFusion and retained the remaining 41.4 million shares of CareFusion common stock. During fiscal 2011 and 2010, we disposed of 30.5 million and 10.9 million shares of CareFusion common stock, respectively. On July 22, 2009, we entered into a separation agreement with CareFusion to effect the Spin Off and provide a framework for our relationship with CareFusion after the Spin Off. In addition, on August 31, 2009, we entered into a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement and an accounts receivable factoring agreement with CareFusion, among other agreements. Under the transition services agreement, during fiscal 2011 and 2010, we recognized $65 million and $99 million, respectively, in transition service fees, which approximately offsets the costs associated with providing the transition services. Substantially all of the transition service arrangements expired in fiscal 2011 and early fiscal 2012. We expect that transition service fees in fiscal 2012 will be substantially less than in fiscal 2011 and that the loss of fees in fiscal 2012 will be partially offset by cost reductions. For periods subsequent to fiscal 2012, we have plans in place to largely offset the loss of fees with cost reductions. Under the accounts receivable factoring agreement, during fiscal 2011 and 2010, we purchased $460 million and $606 million, respectively, of CareFusion trade receivables. The accounts receivable factoring arrangement expired on April 1, 2011. Under the tax matters agreement, CareFusion is obligated to indemnify us for certain tax exposures and transaction taxes prior to the Spin Off. The indemnification receivable was $264 million and $245 million at June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and is included in our consolidated financial statements. We expect the transition of our relationship with CareFusion to a traditional distribution model during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 to have a $50 to $60 million per quarter positive impact on medical segment revenue for the first three quarters of fiscal 2012. However, we expect this change to have minimal impact on medical segment profit. 21 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Change Revenue (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 Pharmaceutical 4 % 2 % $ 93,743.5 $ 89,789.9 $ 87,862.9 Medical 2 % 7 % 8,921.5 8,750.1 8,159.3 Total Segment Revenue 4 % 3 % $ 102,665.0 $ 98,540.0 $ 96,022.2 Corporate N.M. N.M. (20.8 ) (37.2 ) (30.7 ) Consolidated Revenues 4 % 3 % $ 102,644.2 $ 98,502.8 $ 95,991.5 Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 Pharmaceutical segment During fiscal 2011, Pharmaceutical revenue was positively impacted by acquisitions, net of divestitures ($2.7 billion) and increased sales to existing customers ($1.8 billion). Revenue was negatively impacted by losses of customers in excess of gains ($584 million). Revenue from bulk sales was $41.9 billion and $44.0 billion for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. During fiscal 2011, revenue from bulk sales decreased 5 percent as a result of the conversion of branded pharmaceuticals to generic pharmaceuticals as well as a shift in sales to certain national chain customers to non bulk from bulk. Revenue from non bulk sales was $51.8 billion and $45.8 billion for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Revenue from non bulk sales increased 13 percent, during fiscal 2011, primarily due to acquisitions and the previously mentioned shift in sales. All sales for Kinray, Yong Yu and P4 Healthcare are non bulk. See Item 1 Business for more information about bulk and non bulk sales. Medical segment Medical revenue was positively impacted during fiscal 2011 by increased volume from existing customers ($354 million). These revenue gains were partially offset by the impact of lost customers in excess of gains ($165 million) and decreased volume as a result of strong demand for flu related products in the prior year ($51 million). Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Pharmaceutical segment Pharmaceutical segment revenue was positively impacted during fiscal 2010 by pharmaceutical price appreciation and increased volume from existing customers (a combined impact of $3.4 billion), partially offset by losses of customers in excess of gains ($1.3 billion). Medical segment Medical segment revenue was positively impacted during fiscal 2010 by increased volume from existing hospital, laboratory and ambulatory care customers ($462 million), driven partially by strong demand for flu related products. Also positively impacting revenue were new products ($74 million) and foreign exchange ($55 million). In addition, in connection with the Spin Off, we recognized previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion of $51 million (prior to the Spin Off, we deferred revenue for products sold to CareFusion businesses until the products were sold to the end customers). Losses of existing customers in excess of gains from new customers reduced revenue by $200 million. 22 Table of Contents Cost of Products Sold Consistent with the increases in revenue, our cost of products sold increased $3.8 billion, or 4 percent, during fiscal 2011 and increased by $2.5 billion, or 3 percent, during fiscal 2010. Gross Margin Change Gross Margin (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 Gross margin 10 % 1 % $ 4,162.0 $ 3,780.7 $ 3,747.5 Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 Pharmaceutical segment Gross margin increased $446 million in fiscal 2011 primarily as a result of the factors listed below. Strong performance in our generic pharmaceutical programs, including the impact of new product launches, increased gross margin by $239 million. Acquisitions, net of divestitures, positively impacted gross margin by $198 million. Increased margin from branded pharmaceutical sales (exclusive of the related volume impact) had a positive impact on gross margin of $72 million. The increase was primarily due to our performance under distribution service agreements and the transition of certain vendors to distribution service agreements. Factors that can influence margin from branded pharmaceutical sales include our service level performance under distribution service agreements; our inventory level and mix; and the magnitude and timing of pharmaceutical price appreciation. Customer pricing changes including rebates (exclusive of the related volume impact) adversely impacted gross margin by $99 million. The adverse impact of these customer pricing changes is partially offset by product mix, sourcing programs and other sources of margin. Medical segment Gross margin decreased $59 million in fiscal 2011 primarily as a result of the factors listed below. Increased cost of oil based resins, cotton, latex, diesel fuel and other commodities used in our self manufactured and private brand products decreased gross margin by $59 million. Increased net sales volume resulted in a $22 million favorable impact to gross margin. In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we realized a one time gain of $14 million as a result of the recognition of previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion. Somewhat sluggish healthcare utilization disproportionately affected surgical procedures and consequently our higher margin products. Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Pharmaceutical segment Gross margin decreased $65 million in fiscal 2010 as a result of the factors listed below. Pricing changes on renewed customer contracts (exclusive of the related volume impact) decreased gross margin by $103 million. In fiscal 2009, Medicine Shoppe offered an alternative franchise model to its franchisees to position the franchise system for future growth. This transformation adversely impacted gross margin by $65 million in fiscal 2010; however, this was partially offset by efficiencies gained within SG&A. 23 Table of Contents Increased margin from branded pharmaceutical sales (exclusive of the related volume impact) had a positive impact on gross margin of $38 million despite the adverse timing impact of the transition of a significant vendor relationship to a distribution service agreement. Sales volume growth in pharmaceutical distribution had a positive impact of $22 million. Within nuclear pharmacy, for fiscal 2010, the negative impact of the isotope supply shortage was largely offset by the use of alternative isotopes and the favorable impact of cost of materials savings from conversion to generic products. However, there was a negative impact in the second half of the year due to the severe shortages we experienced during that period. The favorable impact of various generic pharmaceutical product programs in pharmaceutical distribution was partially offset by lower generic margins due to timing and value of new generic launches. Medical segment Gross margin increased $95 million in fiscal 2010 as a result of the factors listed below. Increased sales volume resulted in a $67 million increase in gross margin. Decreased cost of oil based resins and other commodities favorably impacted gross margin by $36 million. A one time gain of $14 million as a result of the recognition of previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion. Distribution, Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (SG&A) Change SG&A (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 SG&A 8 % 3 % $ 2,594.8 $ 2,408.0 $ 2,333.5 Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 The increase in SG&A in fiscal 2011 was primarily due to acquisitions, net of divestitures ($147 million), which included amortization of acquisition related intangible assets of $67 million and $10 million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. SG&A also included costs related to the Spin Off of $10 million and $11 million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Increased SG&A during fiscal 2010 was primarily due to an increase in our management incentive compensation. In fiscal 2010, we had incentive compensation accruals that were $46 million above plan due to better than expected consolidated performance compared with incentive compensation accruals that were $36 million below plan in fiscal 2009. In addition, we incurred increased spending on strategic projects ($51 million). SG&A expense growth was significantly mitigated by cost control measures instituted in fiscal 2009 and reduced bad debt expense ($25 million). SG&A also included $11 million and $5 million of costs related to the Spin Off for fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. 24 Table of Contents Segment Profit and Operating Earnings Change Segment Profit and OperatingEarnings (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 Pharmaceutical 26 % (3 )% $ 1,264.8 $ 1,001.8 $ 1,035.7 Medical (14 )% 11 % 369.9 427.7 384.9 Total Segment Profit 14 % 1 % 1,634.7 1,429.5 1,420.6 Corporate N.M. N.M. (120.7 ) (122.6 ) (133.2 ) Consolidated Operating Earnings 16 % 2 % $ 1,514.0 $ 1,306.9 $ 1,287.4 Segment Profit We evaluate the performance of the individual segments based upon, among other things, segment profit, which is segment revenue, less segment cost of products sold, less segment SG&A expenses. We do not allocate restructuring and employee severance, acquisition related costs, impairments and (gain)/loss on sale of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, certain investment and other spending to our segments. These costs are retained at Corporate. Investment spending generally includes the first year spend for certain projects which require incremental strategic investments in the form of additional operating expenses. We encourage our segments to identify investment projects which will promote innovation and provide future returns. As approval decisions for such projects are dependent upon executive management, the expenses for such projects are often retained at Corporate. In addition, Spin Off costs included within SG&A are not allocated to our segments. Pharmaceutical segment The principal drivers for fiscal 2011 compared to the prior year were strong performance in our generic pharmaceutical programs, including the impact of new product launches, the positive impact of acquisitions, and increased margin from branded pharmaceutical sales, offset by customer pricing changes. See the gross margin section above for discussion of these items. The principal drivers for the decrease during fiscal 2010 were pricing changes on renewed customer contracts, fewer significant generic pharmaceutical launches than the prior year and the Medicine Shoppe franchise transformation. The decline in segment profit was partially offset by contributions from our generic programs, disciplined cost controls and increased margin from branded pharmaceutical sales. Segment profit from bulk sales increased $20 million in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 and was 11 percent of Pharmaceutical segment profit in both years. Segment profit from non bulk sales increased $243 million in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 and was 89 percent of Pharmaceutical segment profit in both years. The generic pharmaceutical items and acquisitions discussed above primarily impacted segment profit from non bulk sales. Medical segment Compared to the prior year, results for fiscal 2011 were adversely affected by increased cost of commodities used in our self manufactured and private brand products partially offset by increased sales volume. Results also were impacted by the negative year over year impact of recognizing in fiscal 2010 a one time gain related to previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion. The principal drivers for the increase during fiscal 2010 were growth in sales to certain existing customers and decreased cost of raw materials associated with commodity price movements. Results were also positively affected by the one time gain related to previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion. Segment profit growth was partially dampened from increased spending on strategic projects. 25 Table of Contents Consolidated Operating Earnings In addition to revenue, gross margin and SG&A discussed above, operating earnings were impacted by the following: (in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Restructuring and employee severance $ 15.5 $ 90.7 $ 104.7 Acquisition related costs 22.9 8.4 2.8 Impairments and loss on sale of assets 8.6 29.1 13.9 Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net 6.2 (62.4 ) 5.2 Restructuring and employee severance Fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 restructuring and employee severance charges included $7 million, $65 million and $74 million, respectively, of costs arising from the Spin Off. Acquisition related costs During fiscal 2011, net acquisition related costs included $21 million, related to the Kinray, Yong Yu and P4 Healthcare acquisitions. The costs were partially offset by $6 million of income as a result of a decrease in the contingent consideration liability relating to the P4 Healthcare acquisition, which reflects actual performance for the first measurement period and changes in our estimate of performance in future measurement periods. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on this change. Impairments and loss on sale of assets In fiscal 2010, we recognized an impairment charge of $18 million related to the write down of SpecialtyScripts, a business within our Pharmaceutical segment. We completed the sale of SpecialtyScripts during the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net In fiscal 2010, we received income of $41 million resulting from settlement of a class action antitrust claim in which we were a class member. In addition, we received $26 million of income for insurance proceeds released from escrow after litigation, commenced against certain directors and officers in 2004, was resolved. Earnings Before Income Taxes and Discontinued Operations In addition to items discussed above, earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations were impacted by the following: Change Earnings Before Income Taxesand Discontinued Operations (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 Other (income)/expense, net 61 % N.M. $ (21.8 ) $ (13.5 ) $ 13.2 Interest expense, net (18 )% (1 )% 92.8 113.5 114.4 Loss on extinguishment of debt N.M. N.M. 0.0 39.9 0.0 Gain on sale of CareFusion common stock N.M. N.M. (75.3 ) (44.6 ) 0.0 Interest expense, net The decrease in interest expense for fiscal 2011 was primarily due to the favorable impact of interest rate swaps. 26 Table of Contents Loss on extinguishment of debt During fiscal 2010, we recognized a $40 million loss from the early retirement of over $1.1 billion of debt securities through a tender offer. Gain on sale of investment in CareFusion common stock We recognized $75 million and $45 million of income during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to realized gains from the sale of shares of CareFusion common stock. Provision for Income Taxes Generally, fluctuations in the effective tax rate are due to changes within international and United States state effective tax rates resulting from our business mix and discrete items. A reconciliation of the provision based on the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate from continuing operations is as follows for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed disclosure of the effective tax rate reconciliation): Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2011 2010 2009 Provision at Federal statutory rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % State and local income taxes, net of federal benefit 2.2 4.7 1.8 Change in measurement of an uncertain tax position 2.4 1.3 0.0 Foreign tax rate differential (2.5 ) (3.3 ) (3.8 ) Unremitted foreign earnings (0.1 ) 13.9 0.0 Valuation allowances (0.6 ) (2.3 ) (3.1 ) Other 0.0 2.3 4.7 Effective income tax rate 36.4 % 51.6 % 34.6 % Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 The effective tax rate was favorably impacted by $28 million, or 1.9 percentage points, attributable to recognizing no income tax expense on the sale of CareFusion stock due to the release of a previously established deferred tax valuation allowance. An unfavorable charge attributable to earnings no longer indefinitely invested offshore in fiscal 2010 favorably impacted the year over year comparison of the effective tax rate (see below). Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 The effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted by a charge of $168 million, or 13.9 percentage points, attributable to earnings no longer indefinitely invested offshore. The fiscal 2010 effective tax rate was also unfavorably impacted by 1.8 percentage points due to changes in our business mix resulting from the Spin Off which resulted in a higher percentage of our pretax income being generated in the United States than in lower tax rate international jurisdictions. A favorable audit settlement with a state taxing authority in fiscal 2009 also unfavorably impacted the year over year comparison of the effective tax rate. Ongoing Audits The IRS is currently conducting audits of fiscal years 2001 through 2010. We have received proposed adjustments from the IRS related to our transfer pricing arrangements between foreign and domestic subsidiaries and the transfer of intellectual property among subsidiaries of an acquired entity prior to its acquisition by us. The IRS proposed additional taxes of $849 million, excluding penalties and interest. If this tax ultimately must be 27 Table of Contents paid, CareFusion is liable under the tax matters agreement for $592 million of the total amount. We disagree with these proposed adjustments and intend to vigorously contest them, and we believe our accruals for these matters are adequate. Earnings/(Loss) from Discontinued Operations CareFusion operating results are included within earnings from discontinued operations for all periods through the date of the Spin Off, and had a significant impact on earnings from discontinued operations for fiscal 2010 and 2009. See Note 5 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on discontinued operations. Recent Developments In late August 2011, the FDA notified us that it was halting entry into the United States of all procedure kits that we assemble in Mexico and import at El Paso, Texas (Imported Kits). The FDA indicated that we had not supplied adequate documentary support for certain components of the Imported Kits, but has not indicated any concerns about patient safety. We are working with the FDA to address their concerns, and, in the interim, are implementing steps to mitigate the impact to customers and our business, including shifting assembly of kits to facilities in the United States. Sales of the Imported Kits were approximately 5 percent of Medical segment revenue in fiscal 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources We currently believe that, based upon available capital resources (cash on hand), projected operating cash flow, and access to committed credit facilities, we have adequate capital resources to fund working capital needs, currently anticipated capital expenditures, business growth and expansion, contractual obligations, current and projected debt service requirements, dividends and share repurchases. During fiscal 2011, we acquired Kinray, Yong Yu and P4 Healthcare with cash on hand. If we decide to engage in one or more additional acquisitions, depending on the size and timing of such transactions, we may need supplemental funding. Capital Resources Cash and Equivalents Our cash and equivalents balance was $1.9 billion at June 30, 2011, compared to $2.8 billion at June 30, 2010. At June 30, 2011, our cash and cash equivalents were held in cash depository accounts with major banks around the world or invested in high quality, short term liquid investments. The decrease was primarily driven by acquisitions, offset by net cash provided by operating activities (which is primarily driven by net earnings and working capital), and the sale of our remaining investment in CareFusion. Changes in working capital can vary significantly depending on factors such as the timing of inventory purchases, customer payments of accounts receivable, and payments to vendors during the regular course of business. We use days sales outstanding (DSO), days inventory on hand (DIOH) and days payable outstanding (DPO) to evaluate our working capital performance. DSO is calculated as trade receivables, net divided by average daily revenue during the last month of the reporting period. DIOH is calculated as inventories divided by average daily cost of products sold and chargeback billings during the last quarter of the reporting period. DPO is calculated as accounts payable divided by average daily cost of products sold and chargeback billings during the last quarter of the reporting period. Chargeback billings are the difference between a products wholesale acquisition cost and the contract price established between the vendors and the end customer. Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2011 2010 2009 Days sales outstanding 20.3 18.6 19.1 Days inventory on hand 22.5 21.5 23.1 Days payable outstanding 34.8 32.1 30.5 28 Table of Contents The increase in DSO in fiscal 2011 was driven by the impact of acquisitions and the increase in DPO was due to the timing of payments to vendors during the regular course of business. The decrease in DSO in fiscal 2010 was driven by focused efforts to manage customer accounts and reduce delinquency rates. The significant improvement in DIOH in fiscal 2010 was largely due to enhanced efficiency in our supply chain operations to reduce inventory requirements. The change in DPO during fiscal 2010 was largely driven by a change in payable terms with a supplier in our Pharmaceutical segment. During fiscal 2011, we deployed $2.3 billion of cash on acquisitions, $291 million on capital expenditures, $274 million on dividends and $270 million on share repurchases. During fiscal 2011, we received $706 million in proceeds from sale of CareFusion common stock. During fiscal 2010, we deployed $260 million of cash on capital expenditures, $253 million on dividends and $230 million on share repurchases (an additional $20 million repurchased during fiscal 2010 settled during the first quarter of 2011). During fiscal 2010, we received $271 million in proceeds from sale of CareFusion common stock and $154 million from the divestitures of our Martindale business in the United Kingdom and SpecialtyScripts. In addition, we completed a debt tender resulting in the purchase of more than $1.1 billion debt securities using cash of $1.4 billion distributed to us from CareFusion in connection with the Spin Off. Additionally, in October 2009, we repaid our $350 million floating rate notes at maturity. The cash and equivalents balance at the end of fiscal 2011 included $266 million of cash held by subsidiaries outside of the United States. Although the vast majority of this cash is available for repatriation, permanently bringing the money into the United States could trigger U.S. federal, state and local income tax obligations. As a U.S. parent company, we may temporarily access cash held by our foreign subsidiaries without becoming subject to U.S. federal income tax through intercompany loans. The net cash provided by discontinued operations for fiscal 2010 of $1.4 billion primarily reflected permanent financing obtained by CareFusion prior to the Spin Off offset by $90 million cash funding provided by us to CareFusion pursuant to the Spin Off separation agreement. Net cash provided by/(used in) discontinued operations for fiscal 2009 of $341 million primarily related to the earnings and changes in working capital for CareFusion. Ownership of Shares of CareFusion Common Stock During fiscal 2011 and 2010, we disposed of 30.5 million and 10.9 million shares of CareFusion common stock for cash proceeds of $706 million and $271 million, respectively. Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Our sources of liquidity include a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility and a $950 million committed receivables sales facility program. During fiscal 2011, we replaced our prior revolving credit facility with a new $1.5 billion facility that expires in May 2016 and amended the committed receivables sales facility program to extend its term to November 2012. We also have a commercial paper program of up to $1.5 billion, backed by the revolving credit facility. We had no outstanding borrowings from the commercial paper program and no outstanding balance under the committed receivables sales facility program at June 30, 2011. Our ability to access the commercial paper market is limited based on our current credit rating from Moodys Investor Services. Our revolving credit facility and committed receivables sales facility require us to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio, as of any fiscal quarter end, of at least 4 to 1 and a consolidated leverage ratio of no more than 3.25 to 1. As of June 30, 2011, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. 29 Table of Contents Held to Maturity Investments We hold high quality investment grade held to maturity fixed income debt securities with an amortized cost basis of $142 million as of June 30, 2011. These investments vary in maturity date, ranging from three months to sixteen months, and pay interest semi annually. Long term Obligations As of June 30, 2011, we had total long term obligations of $2.5 billion compared to $2.1 billion at June 30, 2010. In December 2010, we sold $500 million of fixed rate notes due 2020 in a registered offering. The 2020 Notes mature on December 15, 2020 and accrue interest at 4.625% per year payable semi annually. We used the proceeds for general corporate purposes and for the repayment of $220 million of our 6.75% Notes due February 15, 2011. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $291 million, $260 million and $421 million, respectively, primarily related to information technology projects and investments to improve the efficiency of our distribution facilities. We expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 to be generally in line with the level of spending in fiscal 2011. We anticipate that we will be able to fund these expenditures through cash provided by operating activities. Fiscal 2012 capital expenditures will be largely focused on information technology projects. Dividends During fiscal 2011, we paid quarterly dividends of $0.195 per share, or $0.78 per share on an annualized basis, an increase of 11 percent from fiscal 2010. On May 4, 2011, our board of directors approved a 10 percent increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.215 per share, or $0.86 per share on an annualized basis, payable on July 15, 2011 to shareholders of record on July 1, 2011. On August 3, 2011, our board of directors approved our 108th consecutive regular quarterly dividend. Share Repurchases During fiscal 2011, we repurchased $250 million of our Common Shares. During fiscal 2010, we repurchased $250 million of our Common Shares, of which $20 million cash settled in July 2010. Subsequent to June 30, 2011 and through August 12, 2011, we repurchased approximately $300 million of our Common Shares. We funded the repurchases with available cash. We have $450 million remaining under our current Board repurchase authorization through November 2013. Interest Rate and Currency Risk Management We use foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity swaps to manage our exposure to cash flow variability. We also use foreign currency forward contracts to protect the value of our existing foreign currency assets and liabilities and interest rate swaps to protect the value of our debt. See Item 7A below as well as Notes 1 and 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives as well as foreign currency, interest rate and commodity exposures. 30 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2011, our contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows: (in millions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total On Balance Sheet: Long term debt (1) $ 325.2 $ 308.5 $ 532.8 $ 1,330.6 $ 2,497.1 Interest on long term debt 106.3 175.0 167.7 239.6 688.6 Capital lease obligations (2) 1.8 3.9 0.0 0.0 5.7 Other long term liabilities (3) 5.5 0.0 2.0 0.0 7.5 Off Balance Sheet: Operating leases (4) 72.2 96.7 46.6 39.3 254.8 Purchase obligations (5) 153.4 73.2 13.7 5.8 246.1 Total contractual obligations $ 664.4 $ 657.3 $ 762.8 $ 1,615.3 $ 3,699.8 (1) Represents maturities of our long term debt obligations excluding capital lease obligations described below. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (2) Represents maturities of our capital lease obligations included within long term debt on our consolidated balance sheet and the related estimated future interest payments. (3) Represents cash outflows by period for certain of our long term liabilities in which cash outflows could be reasonably estimated. Certain long term liabilities, such as unrecognized tax benefits and deferred taxes, have been excluded from the table above because of the inherent uncertainty of the underlying tax positions or because of the inability to reasonably estimate the timing of any cash outflows. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of income taxes. (4) Represents minimum rental payments and the related estimated future interest payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms as described in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (5) Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and specifying all significant terms, including the following: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which we are obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally canceled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from our total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. Our acquisition of P4 Healthcare during fiscal 2011 involves the potential payment of contingent consideration. The table above does not reflect any such obligation, as the timing and amount are uncertain. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the maximum potential amount of future contingent consideration we could be required to pay associated with this acquisition. Recent Financial Accounting Standards See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards. Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that (i) can have a significant impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations for continuing operations and (ii) require use of 31 Table of Contents complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Other companies applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Because our estimates are inherently uncertain, actual results may differ. In this section, we describe the policies applied in preparing our consolidated financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Trade receivables amounts owed to us through our operating activities are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. We also provide financing to various customers. Such financing arrangements range from 90 days to 10 years at interest rates that generally are subject to fluctuation. Financings may be collateralized, guaranteed by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivables are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and are included in other assets. We must use judgment when deciding whether to extend credit and when calculating the required allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts includes portfolio and specific reserves. We determine the appropriate allowance by reviewing accounts receivable aging, industry trends, customer financial strength and credit standing, historical write off trends and payment history. We also regularly evaluate how changes in economic conditions may affect credit risks. Reserve methodologies are assessed annually based on historical losses and economic, business and market trends. In addition, reserves are reviewed quarterly and updated if appropriate. We may adjust the allowance for doubtful accounts if changes in customers financial condition or general economic conditions make defaults more frequent or severe. The following table gives information regarding the allowance for doubtful accounts over the past three fiscal years. Fiscal yearended June 30, Allowance fordoubtful accounts(in millions) Allowance asa percentageof customerreceivables Allowance asa percentageof revenue Reduction toallowance for customerdeductions andwrite offs (in millions) Addition to Allowance(in millions) 2011 $ 150.0 2.4 % 0.15 % $ 21.9 $ 27.2 2010 $ 140.1 2.6 % 0.14 % $ 8.5 $ 26.8 2009 $ 117.6 2.2 % 0.12 % $ 48.3 $ 51.4 A hypothetical 0.1 percent increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables, sales type leases and finance notes receivables at June 30, 2011, would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $6 million. We believe the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal 2011 are appropriate. At this time, we are not aware of any analytical findings or customer issues that might lead to a significant future increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net revenue. Inventories A substantial portion of inventories (70 percent at June 30, 2011, and 73 percent at June 30, 2010) is stated at the lower of cost, using the LIFO (last in, first out) method, or market. These are primarily merchandise inventories at the core pharmaceutical distribution facilities within our Pharmaceutical segment. The LIFO impact on the consolidated statements of earnings in a given year depends on pharmaceutical price appreciation and the level of inventory. Prices for branded pharmaceuticals tend to rise, which results in an increase in cost of products sold, whereas prices for generic pharmaceuticals tend to decline, which results in a decrease in cost of products sold. 32 Table of Contents The LIFO method presumes that the most recent inventory purchases are the first items sold, so LIFO helps us better match current costs and revenue. Using LIFO, if branded pharmaceutical inventory levels decline, the result generally will be a decrease in future cost of products sold: prices for branded pharmaceuticals tend to rise over time, so our older inventory is held at a lower cost. Conversely, if generic pharmaceutical inventory levels decline, future cost of products sold generally will increase: prices for generic pharmaceuticals tend to decline over time, so our older inventory is held at a higher cost. We believe that the average cost method of inventory valuation reasonably approximates the current cost of replacing inventory within the Pharmaceutical distribution facilities. Accordingly, the LIFO reserve is the difference between (a) inventory at the lower of LIFO cost or market and (b) inventory at replacement cost determined using the average cost method of inventory valuation. In fiscal 2011 and 2010, we did not record any LIFO reserve reductions. The remaining inventory is stated at the lower of cost, using the FIFO (first in, first out) method, or market. If we had used the average cost method of inventory valuation for all inventory within the Pharmaceutical distribution facilities, the value of inventories would not have changed in fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2010. Primarily because prices for our generic pharmaceutical inventories have continued to decline, inventories at LIFO were $8 million and $38 million higher than the average cost value as of June 30, 2011, and 2010, respectively. We do not record inventories in excess of replacement cost. Inventories recorded on the consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory, which were $40 million at June 30, 2011, and $34 million at June 30, 2010. We determine reserves for inventory obsolescence based on historical experience, sales trends, specific categories of inventory and age of on hand inventory. If actual conditions are less favorable than our assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required. Business Combinations The purchase price of an acquired business is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition, including identifiable intangible assets. When an acquisition involves contingent consideration, we recognize a liability equal to the fair value of the contingent consideration obligation at the date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. We base the fair values of identifiable intangible assets on detailed valuations that require management to make significant judgments, estimates and assumptions. Critical estimates and assumptions include: expected future cash flows for trade names, customer relationships and other identifiable intangible assets; discount rates that reflect the risk factors associated with future cash flows; and estimates of useful lives. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our acquisitions, including the contingent consideration related to the P4 Healthcare acquisition. Goodwill and Other Intangibles Purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Intangible assets with finite lives primarily customer relationships and patents and trademarks continue to be amortized over their useful lives. Impairment testing involves a comparison of estimated fair value to the respective carrying amount. If estimated fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value, then a second step is performed to determine the amount of impairment which would be recorded as an expense to our results of operations. Application of goodwill impairment testing involves judgment, including but not limited to, the identification of reporting units and estimating the fair value of each reporting unit. A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. In fiscal 2011, we identified four reporting 33 Table of Contents units: Pharmaceutical segment (excluding our nuclear and pharmacy services division and Yong Yu division); Medical segment; nuclear and pharmacy services division; and Yong Yu division. Fair values can be determined using market, income or cost based approaches. Our determination of estimated fair value of the reporting units is based on a combination of income based and market based approaches. Under the market based approach we determine fair value by comparing our reporting units to similar businesses, or guideline companies whose securities are actively traded in public markets. Under the income based approach, we use a discounted cash flow model in which cash flows anticipated over several periods, plus a terminal value at the end of that time horizon, are discounted to their present value using an appropriate rate of return. To further confirm the fair value, we compare our aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our market capitalization. The use of alternate estimates and assumptions or changes in the industry or peer groups could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit and potentially result in goodwill impairment. We performed annual impairment testing in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 and concluded that there were no impairments of goodwill as the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill and other intangible assets. If we alter our impairment testing by increasing the discount rate in the discounted cash flow analysis by 1 percent, there still would not be any impairment indicated for any of our reporting units for fiscal 2011, 2010 or 2009. Vendor Reserves In the ordinary course of business, our vendors may dispute deductions taken against payments otherwise due to them or assert other billing disputes. These disputed transactions are researched and resolved based upon our policy and findings of the research performed. At any given time, there are outstanding items in various stages of research and resolution. In determining appropriate reserves for areas of exposure with our vendors, we assess historical experience and current outstanding claims. We have established various levels of reserves based on the type of claim and status of review. Though the transaction types are relatively consistent, we periodically refine our estimate methodology by updating the reserve estimate percentages to reflect actual historical experience. Changes to the estimate percentages affect the cost of products sold in the period in which the change was made. Vendor reserves were $41 million and $28 million at June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Approximately 65 percent of the vendor reserve at June 30, 2011, pertained to the Pharmaceutical segment, compared to 59 percent at the end of fiscal 2010. The reserve balance will fluctuate due to variations of outstanding claims from period to period, timing of settlements, and specific vendor issues, such as bankruptcies. The ultimate outcome of specific claims may be different than our original estimate and may require adjustment. We believe, however, that reserves recorded for such disputes are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and unrecognized tax benefits reflect managements assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the consolidated financial statements. 34 Table of Contents Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. The following table presents information about our tax position: Fiscalyear endedJune 30, Net deferred income taxassets (in millions) Net deferred income taxliabilities (in billions) Net loss and credit carryforwardsincluded in net deferred incometax assets (in millions) Net valuation allowance(in millions) againstdeferred tax assets (1) 2011 $ 543 $ 1.4 $ 190 $ 158 2010 $ 578 $ 1.2 $ 197 $ 183 (1) This valuation allowance primarily relates to federal, state and international loss carryforwards for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. Expiring carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted annually. After applying the valuation allowances, we do not anticipate any limitations on our use of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described above. We believe that our estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and unrecognized tax benefits are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, other companies applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. The amount we ultimately pay when matters are resolved may differ from the amounts accrued. Tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed disclosure of the unrecognized tax benefits). If any of our assumptions or estimates were to change, an increase or decrease in our effective tax rate by 1 percent on earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations would have caused income tax expense to increase or decrease by $15 million for fiscal 2011. Share based Compensation All share based payments to employees, including grants of options, are recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. The fair value of stock options is determined using a lattice valuation model. We believe the lattice model provides for better estimates because it has the ability to take into account employee exercise patterns based on changes in our stock price and other variables and it provides for a range of input assumptions. During fiscal 2011 and 2010, we calculated separate option valuations for two separate groups of employees. During fiscal 2009, we calculated separate option valuations for three separate groups of employees. The groups were determined using similar historical exercise behaviors. The expected life of the options granted was calculated from the option valuation model and represents the length of time in years that the options granted are expected to be outstanding. Expected volatilities are based on implied volatility from traded options on our Common Shares and historical volatility over a period of time commensurate with the contractual term of the option grant (7 years). As required, the forfeiture estimates will be adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures when an award vests. The actual forfeitures in future reporting periods could be higher or lower than our current estimates. 35 Table of Contents Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Our businesses are exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations as a result of certain market risks. These market risks primarily relate to foreign exchange, interest rate, and commodity price related changes. We maintain a hedging program to manage volatility related to these market exposures which employs operational, economic, and derivative financial instruments in order to mitigate risk. See Notes 1 and 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our use of derivative instruments. Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity By nature of our global operations, our businesses are exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations resulting from foreign exchange rate variation. These exposures are transactional and translational in nature. Principal drivers of this foreign exchange exposure include the Canadian dollar, European euro, Mexican peso, and Thai baht. Transactional Exposure Our businesses transactional exposure arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than our functional currency or the functional currency of our subsidiaries. As part of our risk management program, at the end of each fiscal year we perform a sensitivity analysis on our forecasted transactional exposure for the upcoming fiscal year. The fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 analyses utilize a currency portfolio model, encompassing both implied volatility and historical correlation to estimate the net potential gain or loss. These analyses included the estimated impact of our hedging program, which mitigates our businesses transactional exposure. At each of June 30, 2011 and 2010, we had hedged approximately 45 percent of our businesses transactional exposures. The following table summarizes the analysis as it relates to our businesses transactional exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent increase or decrease: (in millions) 2011 2010 Net estimated transactional exposure $ 373.9 $ 318.9 Sensitivity gain/loss $ 37.4 $ 31.9 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (14.0 ) (17.8 ) Estimated net gain/loss $ 23.4 $ 14.1 Translational Exposure We have exposure related to the translation of financial statements of our foreign operations into U.S. dollars, our functional currency. We perform a similar analysis as described above related to this translational exposure. We do not typically hedge any of our translational exposure and no hedging impact was included in our analysis at June 30, 2011 and 2010. The following table summarizes our businesses translational exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening or weakening in the U.S. dollar: (in millions) 2011 2010 Net estimated translational exposure $ 54.0 $ 35.3 Sensitivity gain/loss $ 5.4 $ 3.5 Interest Rate Sensitivity We are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of our borrowing and investing activities to maintain liquidity and fund business operations. The nature and amount of our long term and short term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions and other factors. Our policy is to manage exposures to interest rates using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt as deemed appropriate by management. We utilize interest rate swap instruments to mitigate our exposure to interest rate movements. 36 Table of Contents As part of our risk management program, we perform an annual sensitivity analysis on our forecasted exposure to interest rates for the following fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 10 percent change in interest rates. At June 30, 2011 and 2010, the potential increase or decrease in annual interest expense under this analysis as a result of this hypothetical change was $0.4 million and $0.3 million, respectively. Commodity Price Sensitivity We are exposed to market price changes for commodities, including oil based resins, cotton, latex, and diesel fuel. We typically purchase raw materials at market prices and some finished goods at prices based in part on a commodity price index. As part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analysis on our forecasted commodity exposure for the following fiscal year. Our forecasted commodity exposure as of June 30, 2011 increased from the prior year primarily as a result of contract adjustments with vendors, volatility of commodity prices, changes in purchasing volumes and changes in the mix of items we buy. We have updated the prior year comparable commodity exposure to include all items meeting this criteria. At June 30, 2011 and 2010, we had hedged a portion of these commodity exposures (see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). The table below summarizes our analysis of these forecasted commodity exposures and a hypothetical 10 percent fluctuation in commodity prices as of June 30, 2011 and 2010: (in millions) 2011 2010 Estimated commodity exposure $ 472.8 $ 362.3 Sensitivity gain/loss 47.2 36.2 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (2.1 ) (1.2 ) Estimated net gain/loss $ 45.1 $ 35.1 We also have additional exposure to commodities through the purchase of finished goods and various other energy related commodities, including natural gas and electricity through our normal course of business where our contracts are not directly tied to a commodity index. We believe our total gross range of exposure to commodities, including the items listed in the table above, is $500 million to $600 million as of June 30, 2012. 37 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis presented below refers to, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10 K. Unless otherwise indicated, throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we are referring to our continuing operations. Executive Overview We are a healthcare services company providing pharmaceutical and medical products and services that help pharmacies, hospitals, surgery centers, physician offices and other healthcare providers focus on patient care while reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality. We report our financial results in two segments: Pharmaceutical and Medical. During fiscal 2011, we achieved record revenue of $102.6 billion and increased our operating earnings by 16 percent to $1.5 billion. We also acted on important strategic priorities that will strengthen our long term position. We expanded our retail independent customer base significantly with the Kinray acquisition, created strong growth from our generic pharmaceutical programs, significantly enhanced our specialty business with the P4 Healthcare acquisition, and launched a growth platform in China with our Yong Yu acquisition. During fiscal 2011, our Pharmaceutical segment profit increased by 26 percent, primarily due to strong performance in our generic pharmaceutical programs, including the impact of new product launches, solid performance under our branded manufacturer agreements, and the positive impact of acquisitions. Our Medical segment profit decreased by 14 percent, adversely affected by the increased cost of commodities used in our self manufactured and private brand products. Also during fiscal 2011, we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.195 per share, or $0.78 per share on an annualized basis, an increase of 11 percent over fiscal 2010. In May 2011, the board of directors also approved a 10 percent increase in the quarterly dividend beginning in July 2011. Our cash and equivalents balance was $1.9 billion at June 30, 2011, compared to $2.8 billion at June 30, 2010. We used $2.3 billion for acquisitions and received $1.4 billion of net cash provided by operations and $706 million from the sale of our remaining investment in CareFusion. We plan to continue to execute a balanced deployment of available capital to position ourselves for sustainable competitive advantage and to enhance shareholder value. Trends Within our Pharmaceutical segment, we expect branded pharmaceutical price appreciation in fiscal 2012 to be similar to fiscal 2011. We also expect significant new generic pharmaceutical launches in fiscal 2012; however, their impact on our gross margin can vary significantly depending on timing, size, and number of entrants, and may be less in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011. In addition, we expect our recent acquisitions to have a positive year over year impact on revenue and operating earnings. Finally, we may have a negative impact from a LIFO charge in fiscal 2012. Within our Medical segment, variability in the cost of commodities such as oil based resins, cotton, latex, diesel fuel and other commodities can have a significant impact on the cost of products sold. In fiscal 2012, we anticipate a negative year over year impact from higher commodity prices. In addition, given the current economic and healthcare environments, we expect healthcare utilization, including surgical procedures, to remain somewhat sluggish in fiscal 2012. 20 Table of Contents Acquisitions In December 2010, we acquired Kinray for a cash payment of $1.3 billion. This acquisition expanded the ability of our pharmaceutical distribution business to serve retail independent pharmacies in the northeastern United States. In November 2010, we acquired Yong Yu, a leading health care distribution business in China, for $458 million, including the assumption of $57 million in debt. The pharmaceutical market in China is expected to grow significantly faster than the market in the United States over the next few years. In July 2010, we completed the acquisition of P4 Healthcare, a specialty pharmaceutical services company, for a cash payment of $506 million. This acquisition contributes to the expansion of our presence in specialty pharmaceutical services and distribution. The acquisition agreement also included a contingent consideration obligation of up to $150 million over the next three years. Since we completed the acquisition, we have made a cash payment of $10 million for the first measurement period. Subsequent to June 30, 2011, we amended the agreement with the former owners to extend the last measurement period by one year and to reduce the maximum contingent consideration payout to $100 million. At June 30, 2011, we estimate the remaining contingent consideration obligation to have a fair value of $75 million. The three acquisitions are reported within our Pharmaceutical segment. For fiscal 2011, they increased revenues by $2.9 billion and operating earnings by $61 million compared to fiscal 2010. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Kinray, Yong Yu and P4 Healthcare acquisitions. Spin Off of CareFusion Effective August 31, 2009, we separated our clinical and medical products business through the distribution to our shareholders of 81 percent of the then outstanding common stock of CareFusion and retained the remaining 41.4 million shares of CareFusion common stock. During fiscal 2011 and 2010, we disposed of 30.5 million and 10.9 million shares of CareFusion common stock, respectively. On July 22, 2009, we entered into a separation agreement with CareFusion to effect the Spin Off and provide a framework for our relationship with CareFusion after the Spin Off. In addition, on August 31, 2009, we entered into a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement and an accounts receivable factoring agreement with CareFusion, among other agreements. Under the transition services agreement, during fiscal 2011 and 2010, we recognized $65 million and $99 million, respectively, in transition service fees, which approximately offsets the costs associated with providing the transition services. Substantially all of the transition service arrangements expired in fiscal 2011 and early fiscal 2012. We expect that transition service fees in fiscal 2012 will be substantially less than in fiscal 2011 and that the loss of fees in fiscal 2012 will be partially offset by cost reductions. For periods subsequent to fiscal 2012, we have plans in place to largely offset the loss of fees with cost reductions. Under the accounts receivable factoring agreement, during fiscal 2011 and 2010, we purchased $460 million and $606 million, respectively, of CareFusion trade receivables. The accounts receivable factoring arrangement expired on April 1, 2011. Under the tax matters agreement, CareFusion is obligated to indemnify us for certain tax exposures and transaction taxes prior to the Spin Off. The indemnification receivable was $264 million and $245 million at June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and is included in our consolidated financial statements. We expect the transition of our relationship with CareFusion to a traditional distribution model during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 to have a $50 to $60 million per quarter positive impact on medical segment revenue for the first three quarters of fiscal 2012. However, we expect this change to have minimal impact on medical segment profit. 21 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Change Revenue (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 Pharmaceutical 4 % 2 % $ 93,743.5 $ 89,789.9 $ 87,862.9 Medical 2 % 7 % 8,921.5 8,750.1 8,159.3 Total Segment Revenue 4 % 3 % $ 102,665.0 $ 98,540.0 $ 96,022.2 Corporate N.M. N.M. (20.8 ) (37.2 ) (30.7 ) Consolidated Revenues 4 % 3 % $ 102,644.2 $ 98,502.8 $ 95,991.5 Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 Pharmaceutical segment During fiscal 2011, Pharmaceutical revenue was positively impacted by acquisitions, net of divestitures ($2.7 billion) and increased sales to existing customers ($1.8 billion). Revenue was negatively impacted by losses of customers in excess of gains ($584 million). Revenue from bulk sales was $41.9 billion and $44.0 billion for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. During fiscal 2011, revenue from bulk sales decreased 5 percent as a result of the conversion of branded pharmaceuticals to generic pharmaceuticals as well as a shift in sales to certain national chain customers to non bulk from bulk. Revenue from non bulk sales was $51.8 billion and $45.8 billion for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Revenue from non bulk sales increased 13 percent, during fiscal 2011, primarily due to acquisitions and the previously mentioned shift in sales. All sales for Kinray, Yong Yu and P4 Healthcare are non bulk. See Item 1 Business for more information about bulk and non bulk sales. Medical segment Medical revenue was positively impacted during fiscal 2011 by increased volume from existing customers ($354 million). These revenue gains were partially offset by the impact of lost customers in excess of gains ($165 million) and decreased volume as a result of strong demand for flu related products in the prior year ($51 million). Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Pharmaceutical segment Pharmaceutical segment revenue was positively impacted during fiscal 2010 by pharmaceutical price appreciation and increased volume from existing customers (a combined impact of $3.4 billion), partially offset by losses of customers in excess of gains ($1.3 billion). Medical segment Medical segment revenue was positively impacted during fiscal 2010 by increased volume from existing hospital, laboratory and ambulatory care customers ($462 million), driven partially by strong demand for flu related products. Also positively impacting revenue were new products ($74 million) and foreign exchange ($55 million). In addition, in connection with the Spin Off, we recognized previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion of $51 million (prior to the Spin Off, we deferred revenue for products sold to CareFusion businesses until the products were sold to the end customers). Losses of existing customers in excess of gains from new customers reduced revenue by $200 million. 22 Table of Contents Cost of Products Sold Consistent with the increases in revenue, our cost of products sold increased $3.8 billion, or 4 percent, during fiscal 2011 and increased by $2.5 billion, or 3 percent, during fiscal 2010. Gross Margin Change Gross Margin (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 Gross margin 10 % 1 % $ 4,162.0 $ 3,780.7 $ 3,747.5 Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 Pharmaceutical segment Gross margin increased $446 million in fiscal 2011 primarily as a result of the factors listed below. Strong performance in our generic pharmaceutical programs, including the impact of new product launches, increased gross margin by $239 million. Acquisitions, net of divestitures, positively impacted gross margin by $198 million. Increased margin from branded pharmaceutical sales (exclusive of the related volume impact) had a positive impact on gross margin of $72 million. The increase was primarily due to our performance under distribution service agreements and the transition of certain vendors to distribution service agreements. Factors that can influence margin from branded pharmaceutical sales include our service level performance under distribution service agreements; our inventory level and mix; and the magnitude and timing of pharmaceutical price appreciation. Customer pricing changes including rebates (exclusive of the related volume impact) adversely impacted gross margin by $99 million. The adverse impact of these customer pricing changes is partially offset by product mix, sourcing programs and other sources of margin. Medical segment Gross margin decreased $59 million in fiscal 2011 primarily as a result of the factors listed below. Increased cost of oil based resins, cotton, latex, diesel fuel and other commodities used in our self manufactured and private brand products decreased gross margin by $59 million. Increased net sales volume resulted in a $22 million favorable impact to gross margin. In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we realized a one time gain of $14 million as a result of the recognition of previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion. Somewhat sluggish healthcare utilization disproportionately affected surgical procedures and consequently our higher margin products. Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Pharmaceutical segment Gross margin decreased $65 million in fiscal 2010 as a result of the factors listed below. Pricing changes on renewed customer contracts (exclusive of the related volume impact) decreased gross margin by $103 million. In fiscal 2009, Medicine Shoppe offered an alternative franchise model to its franchisees to position the franchise system for future growth. This transformation adversely impacted gross margin by $65 million in fiscal 2010; however, this was partially offset by efficiencies gained within SG&A. 23 Table of Contents Increased margin from branded pharmaceutical sales (exclusive of the related volume impact) had a positive impact on gross margin of $38 million despite the adverse timing impact of the transition of a significant vendor relationship to a distribution service agreement. Sales volume growth in pharmaceutical distribution had a positive impact of $22 million. Within nuclear pharmacy, for fiscal 2010, the negative impact of the isotope supply shortage was largely offset by the use of alternative isotopes and the favorable impact of cost of materials savings from conversion to generic products. However, there was a negative impact in the second half of the year due to the severe shortages we experienced during that period. The favorable impact of various generic pharmaceutical product programs in pharmaceutical distribution was partially offset by lower generic margins due to timing and value of new generic launches. Medical segment Gross margin increased $95 million in fiscal 2010 as a result of the factors listed below. Increased sales volume resulted in a $67 million increase in gross margin. Decreased cost of oil based resins and other commodities favorably impacted gross margin by $36 million. A one time gain of $14 million as a result of the recognition of previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion. Distribution, Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (SG&A) Change SG&A (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 SG&A 8 % 3 % $ 2,594.8 $ 2,408.0 $ 2,333.5 Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 The increase in SG&A in fiscal 2011 was primarily due to acquisitions, net of divestitures ($147 million), which included amortization of acquisition related intangible assets of $67 million and $10 million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. SG&A also included costs related to the Spin Off of $10 million and $11 million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 Increased SG&A during fiscal 2010 was primarily due to an increase in our management incentive compensation. In fiscal 2010, we had incentive compensation accruals that were $46 million above plan due to better than expected consolidated performance compared with incentive compensation accruals that were $36 million below plan in fiscal 2009. In addition, we incurred increased spending on strategic projects ($51 million). SG&A expense growth was significantly mitigated by cost control measures instituted in fiscal 2009 and reduced bad debt expense ($25 million). SG&A also included $11 million and $5 million of costs related to the Spin Off for fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. 24 Table of Contents Segment Profit and Operating Earnings Change Segment Profit and OperatingEarnings (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 Pharmaceutical 26 % (3 )% $ 1,264.8 $ 1,001.8 $ 1,035.7 Medical (14 )% 11 % 369.9 427.7 384.9 Total Segment Profit 14 % 1 % 1,634.7 1,429.5 1,420.6 Corporate N.M. N.M. (120.7 ) (122.6 ) (133.2 ) Consolidated Operating Earnings 16 % 2 % $ 1,514.0 $ 1,306.9 $ 1,287.4 Segment Profit We evaluate the performance of the individual segments based upon, among other things, segment profit, which is segment revenue, less segment cost of products sold, less segment SG&A expenses. We do not allocate restructuring and employee severance, acquisition related costs, impairments and (gain)/loss on sale of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, certain investment and other spending to our segments. These costs are retained at Corporate. Investment spending generally includes the first year spend for certain projects which require incremental strategic investments in the form of additional operating expenses. We encourage our segments to identify investment projects which will promote innovation and provide future returns. As approval decisions for such projects are dependent upon executive management, the expenses for such projects are often retained at Corporate. In addition, Spin Off costs included within SG&A are not allocated to our segments. Pharmaceutical segment The principal drivers for fiscal 2011 compared to the prior year were strong performance in our generic pharmaceutical programs, including the impact of new product launches, the positive impact of acquisitions, and increased margin from branded pharmaceutical sales, offset by customer pricing changes. See the gross margin section above for discussion of these items. The principal drivers for the decrease during fiscal 2010 were pricing changes on renewed customer contracts, fewer significant generic pharmaceutical launches than the prior year and the Medicine Shoppe franchise transformation. The decline in segment profit was partially offset by contributions from our generic programs, disciplined cost controls and increased margin from branded pharmaceutical sales. Segment profit from bulk sales increased $20 million in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 and was 11 percent of Pharmaceutical segment profit in both years. Segment profit from non bulk sales increased $243 million in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 and was 89 percent of Pharmaceutical segment profit in both years. The generic pharmaceutical items and acquisitions discussed above primarily impacted segment profit from non bulk sales. Medical segment Compared to the prior year, results for fiscal 2011 were adversely affected by increased cost of commodities used in our self manufactured and private brand products partially offset by increased sales volume. Results also were impacted by the negative year over year impact of recognizing in fiscal 2010 a one time gain related to previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion. The principal drivers for the increase during fiscal 2010 were growth in sales to certain existing customers and decreased cost of raw materials associated with commodity price movements. Results were also positively affected by the one time gain related to previously deferred intercompany revenue for sales to CareFusion. Segment profit growth was partially dampened from increased spending on strategic projects. 25 Table of Contents Consolidated Operating Earnings In addition to revenue, gross margin and SG&A discussed above, operating earnings were impacted by the following: (in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Restructuring and employee severance $ 15.5 $ 90.7 $ 104.7 Acquisition related costs 22.9 8.4 2.8 Impairments and loss on sale of assets 8.6 29.1 13.9 Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net 6.2 (62.4 ) 5.2 Restructuring and employee severance Fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 restructuring and employee severance charges included $7 million, $65 million and $74 million, respectively, of costs arising from the Spin Off. Acquisition related costs During fiscal 2011, net acquisition related costs included $21 million, related to the Kinray, Yong Yu and P4 Healthcare acquisitions. The costs were partially offset by $6 million of income as a result of a decrease in the contingent consideration liability relating to the P4 Healthcare acquisition, which reflects actual performance for the first measurement period and changes in our estimate of performance in future measurement periods. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on this change. Impairments and loss on sale of assets In fiscal 2010, we recognized an impairment charge of $18 million related to the write down of SpecialtyScripts, a business within our Pharmaceutical segment. We completed the sale of SpecialtyScripts during the third quarter of fiscal 2010. Litigation (recoveries)/charges, net In fiscal 2010, we received income of $41 million resulting from settlement of a class action antitrust claim in which we were a class member. In addition, we received $26 million of income for insurance proceeds released from escrow after litigation, commenced against certain directors and officers in 2004, was resolved. Earnings Before Income Taxes and Discontinued Operations In addition to items discussed above, earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations were impacted by the following: Change Earnings Before Income Taxesand Discontinued Operations (in millions, except growth rates) 2011 2010 2011 2010 2009 Other (income)/expense, net 61 % N.M. $ (21.8 ) $ (13.5 ) $ 13.2 Interest expense, net (18 )% (1 )% 92.8 113.5 114.4 Loss on extinguishment of debt N.M. N.M. 0.0 39.9 0.0 Gain on sale of CareFusion common stock N.M. N.M. (75.3 ) (44.6 ) 0.0 Interest expense, net The decrease in interest expense for fiscal 2011 was primarily due to the favorable impact of interest rate swaps. 26 Table of Contents Loss on extinguishment of debt During fiscal 2010, we recognized a $40 million loss from the early retirement of over $1.1 billion of debt securities through a tender offer. Gain on sale of investment in CareFusion common stock We recognized $75 million and $45 million of income during fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to realized gains from the sale of shares of CareFusion common stock. Provision for Income Taxes Generally, fluctuations in the effective tax rate are due to changes within international and United States state effective tax rates resulting from our business mix and discrete items. A reconciliation of the provision based on the federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate from continuing operations is as follows for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed disclosure of the effective tax rate reconciliation): Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2011 2010 2009 Provision at Federal statutory rate 35.0 % 35.0 % 35.0 % State and local income taxes, net of federal benefit 2.2 4.7 1.8 Change in measurement of an uncertain tax position 2.4 1.3 0.0 Foreign tax rate differential (2.5 ) (3.3 ) (3.8 ) Unremitted foreign earnings (0.1 ) 13.9 0.0 Valuation allowances (0.6 ) (2.3 ) (3.1 ) Other 0.0 2.3 4.7 Effective income tax rate 36.4 % 51.6 % 34.6 % Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 The effective tax rate was favorably impacted by $28 million, or 1.9 percentage points, attributable to recognizing no income tax expense on the sale of CareFusion stock due to the release of a previously established deferred tax valuation allowance. An unfavorable charge attributable to earnings no longer indefinitely invested offshore in fiscal 2010 favorably impacted the year over year comparison of the effective tax rate (see below). Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 The effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted by a charge of $168 million, or 13.9 percentage points, attributable to earnings no longer indefinitely invested offshore. The fiscal 2010 effective tax rate was also unfavorably impacted by 1.8 percentage points due to changes in our business mix resulting from the Spin Off which resulted in a higher percentage of our pretax income being generated in the United States than in lower tax rate international jurisdictions. A favorable audit settlement with a state taxing authority in fiscal 2009 also unfavorably impacted the year over year comparison of the effective tax rate. Ongoing Audits The IRS is currently conducting audits of fiscal years 2001 through 2010. We have received proposed adjustments from the IRS related to our transfer pricing arrangements between foreign and domestic subsidiaries and the transfer of intellectual property among subsidiaries of an acquired entity prior to its acquisition by us. The IRS proposed additional taxes of $849 million, excluding penalties and interest. If this tax ultimately must be 27 Table of Contents paid, CareFusion is liable under the tax matters agreement for $592 million of the total amount. We disagree with these proposed adjustments and intend to vigorously contest them, and we believe our accruals for these matters are adequate. Earnings/(Loss) from Discontinued Operations CareFusion operating results are included within earnings from discontinued operations for all periods through the date of the Spin Off, and had a significant impact on earnings from discontinued operations for fiscal 2010 and 2009. See Note 5 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on discontinued operations. Recent Developments In late August 2011, the FDA notified us that it was halting entry into the United States of all procedure kits that we assemble in Mexico and import at El Paso, Texas (Imported Kits). The FDA indicated that we had not supplied adequate documentary support for certain components of the Imported Kits, but has not indicated any concerns about patient safety. We are working with the FDA to address their concerns, and, in the interim, are implementing steps to mitigate the impact to customers and our business, including shifting assembly of kits to facilities in the United States. Sales of the Imported Kits were approximately 5 percent of Medical segment revenue in fiscal 2011. Liquidity and Capital Resources We currently believe that, based upon available capital resources (cash on hand), projected operating cash flow, and access to committed credit facilities, we have adequate capital resources to fund working capital needs, currently anticipated capital expenditures, business growth and expansion, contractual obligations, current and projected debt service requirements, dividends and share repurchases. During fiscal 2011, we acquired Kinray, Yong Yu and P4 Healthcare with cash on hand. If we decide to engage in one or more additional acquisitions, depending on the size and timing of such transactions, we may need supplemental funding. Capital Resources Cash and Equivalents Our cash and equivalents balance was $1.9 billion at June 30, 2011, compared to $2.8 billion at June 30, 2010. At June 30, 2011, our cash and cash equivalents were held in cash depository accounts with major banks around the world or invested in high quality, short term liquid investments. The decrease was primarily driven by acquisitions, offset by net cash provided by operating activities (which is primarily driven by net earnings and working capital), and the sale of our remaining investment in CareFusion. Changes in working capital can vary significantly depending on factors such as the timing of inventory purchases, customer payments of accounts receivable, and payments to vendors during the regular course of business. We use days sales outstanding (DSO), days inventory on hand (DIOH) and days payable outstanding (DPO) to evaluate our working capital performance. DSO is calculated as trade receivables, net divided by average daily revenue during the last month of the reporting period. DIOH is calculated as inventories divided by average daily cost of products sold and chargeback billings during the last quarter of the reporting period. DPO is calculated as accounts payable divided by average daily cost of products sold and chargeback billings during the last quarter of the reporting period. Chargeback billings are the difference between a products wholesale acquisition cost and the contract price established between the vendors and the end customer. Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2011 2010 2009 Days sales outstanding 20.3 18.6 19.1 Days inventory on hand 22.5 21.5 23.1 Days payable outstanding 34.8 32.1 30.5 28 Table of Contents The increase in DSO in fiscal 2011 was driven by the impact of acquisitions and the increase in DPO was due to the timing of payments to vendors during the regular course of business. The decrease in DSO in fiscal 2010 was driven by focused efforts to manage customer accounts and reduce delinquency rates. The significant improvement in DIOH in fiscal 2010 was largely due to enhanced efficiency in our supply chain operations to reduce inventory requirements. The change in DPO during fiscal 2010 was largely driven by a change in payable terms with a supplier in our Pharmaceutical segment. During fiscal 2011, we deployed $2.3 billion of cash on acquisitions, $291 million on capital expenditures, $274 million on dividends and $270 million on share repurchases. During fiscal 2011, we received $706 million in proceeds from sale of CareFusion common stock. During fiscal 2010, we deployed $260 million of cash on capital expenditures, $253 million on dividends and $230 million on share repurchases (an additional $20 million repurchased during fiscal 2010 settled during the first quarter of 2011). During fiscal 2010, we received $271 million in proceeds from sale of CareFusion common stock and $154 million from the divestitures of our Martindale business in the United Kingdom and SpecialtyScripts. In addition, we completed a debt tender resulting in the purchase of more than $1.1 billion debt securities using cash of $1.4 billion distributed to us from CareFusion in connection with the Spin Off. Additionally, in October 2009, we repaid our $350 million floating rate notes at maturity. The cash and equivalents balance at the end of fiscal 2011 included $266 million of cash held by subsidiaries outside of the United States. Although the vast majority of this cash is available for repatriation, permanently bringing the money into the United States could trigger U.S. federal, state and local income tax obligations. As a U.S. parent company, we may temporarily access cash held by our foreign subsidiaries without becoming subject to U.S. federal income tax through intercompany loans. The net cash provided by discontinued operations for fiscal 2010 of $1.4 billion primarily reflected permanent financing obtained by CareFusion prior to the Spin Off offset by $90 million cash funding provided by us to CareFusion pursuant to the Spin Off separation agreement. Net cash provided by/(used in) discontinued operations for fiscal 2009 of $341 million primarily related to the earnings and changes in working capital for CareFusion. Ownership of Shares of CareFusion Common Stock During fiscal 2011 and 2010, we disposed of 30.5 million and 10.9 million shares of CareFusion common stock for cash proceeds of $706 million and $271 million, respectively. Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Our sources of liquidity include a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility and a $950 million committed receivables sales facility program. During fiscal 2011, we replaced our prior revolving credit facility with a new $1.5 billion facility that expires in May 2016 and amended the committed receivables sales facility program to extend its term to November 2012. We also have a commercial paper program of up to $1.5 billion, backed by the revolving credit facility. We had no outstanding borrowings from the commercial paper program and no outstanding balance under the committed receivables sales facility program at June 30, 2011. Our ability to access the commercial paper market is limited based on our current credit rating from Moodys Investor Services. Our revolving credit facility and committed receivables sales facility require us to maintain a consolidated interest coverage ratio, as of any fiscal quarter end, of at least 4 to 1 and a consolidated leverage ratio of no more than 3.25 to 1. As of June 30, 2011, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. 29 Table of Contents Held to Maturity Investments We hold high quality investment grade held to maturity fixed income debt securities with an amortized cost basis of $142 million as of June 30, 2011. These investments vary in maturity date, ranging from three months to sixteen months, and pay interest semi annually. Long term Obligations As of June 30, 2011, we had total long term obligations of $2.5 billion compared to $2.1 billion at June 30, 2010. In December 2010, we sold $500 million of fixed rate notes due 2020 in a registered offering. The 2020 Notes mature on December 15, 2020 and accrue interest at 4.625% per year payable semi annually. We used the proceeds for general corporate purposes and for the repayment of $220 million of our 6.75% Notes due February 15, 2011. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $291 million, $260 million and $421 million, respectively, primarily related to information technology projects and investments to improve the efficiency of our distribution facilities. We expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 to be generally in line with the level of spending in fiscal 2011. We anticipate that we will be able to fund these expenditures through cash provided by operating activities. Fiscal 2012 capital expenditures will be largely focused on information technology projects. Dividends During fiscal 2011, we paid quarterly dividends of $0.195 per share, or $0.78 per share on an annualized basis, an increase of 11 percent from fiscal 2010. On May 4, 2011, our board of directors approved a 10 percent increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.215 per share, or $0.86 per share on an annualized basis, payable on July 15, 2011 to shareholders of record on July 1, 2011. On August 3, 2011, our board of directors approved our 108th consecutive regular quarterly dividend. Share Repurchases During fiscal 2011, we repurchased $250 million of our Common Shares. During fiscal 2010, we repurchased $250 million of our Common Shares, of which $20 million cash settled in July 2010. Subsequent to June 30, 2011 and through August 12, 2011, we repurchased approximately $300 million of our Common Shares. We funded the repurchases with available cash. We have $450 million remaining under our current Board repurchase authorization through November 2013. Interest Rate and Currency Risk Management We use foreign currency forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity swaps to manage our exposure to cash flow variability. We also use foreign currency forward contracts to protect the value of our existing foreign currency assets and liabilities and interest rate swaps to protect the value of our debt. See Item 7A below as well as Notes 1 and 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the use of financial instruments and derivatives as well as foreign currency, interest rate and commodity exposures. 30 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations As of June 30, 2011, our contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows: (in millions) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total On Balance Sheet: Long term debt (1) $ 325.2 $ 308.5 $ 532.8 $ 1,330.6 $ 2,497.1 Interest on long term debt 106.3 175.0 167.7 239.6 688.6 Capital lease obligations (2) 1.8 3.9 0.0 0.0 5.7 Other long term liabilities (3) 5.5 0.0 2.0 0.0 7.5 Off Balance Sheet: Operating leases (4) 72.2 96.7 46.6 39.3 254.8 Purchase obligations (5) 153.4 73.2 13.7 5.8 246.1 Total contractual obligations $ 664.4 $ 657.3 $ 762.8 $ 1,615.3 $ 3,699.8 (1) Represents maturities of our long term debt obligations excluding capital lease obligations described below. See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (2) Represents maturities of our capital lease obligations included within long term debt on our consolidated balance sheet and the related estimated future interest payments. (3) Represents cash outflows by period for certain of our long term liabilities in which cash outflows could be reasonably estimated. Certain long term liabilities, such as unrecognized tax benefits and deferred taxes, have been excluded from the table above because of the inherent uncertainty of the underlying tax positions or because of the inability to reasonably estimate the timing of any cash outflows. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of income taxes. (4) Represents minimum rental payments and the related estimated future interest payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non cancelable lease terms as described in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (5) Purchase obligations are defined as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and specifying all significant terms, including the following: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligation amounts disclosed above represent estimates of the minimum for which we are obligated and the time period in which cash outflows will occur. Purchase orders and authorizations to purchase that involve no firm commitment from either party are excluded from the above table. In addition, contracts that can be unilaterally canceled with no termination fee or with proper notice are excluded from our total purchase obligations except for the amount of the termination fee or the minimum amount of goods that must be purchased during the requisite notice period. Our acquisition of P4 Healthcare during fiscal 2011 involves the potential payment of contingent consideration. The table above does not reflect any such obligation, as the timing and amount are uncertain. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the maximum potential amount of future contingent consideration we could be required to pay associated with this acquisition. Recent Financial Accounting Standards See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent financial accounting standards. Critical Accounting Policies and Sensitive Accounting Estimates Critical accounting policies are those accounting policies that (i) can have a significant impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations for continuing operations and (ii) require use of 31 Table of Contents complex and subjective estimates based upon past experience and managements judgment. Other companies applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. Because our estimates are inherently uncertain, actual results may differ. In this section, we describe the policies applied in preparing our consolidated financial statements that management believes are the most dependent on estimates and assumptions. For additional accounting policies, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Trade receivables amounts owed to us through our operating activities are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. We also provide financing to various customers. Such financing arrangements range from 90 days to 10 years at interest rates that generally are subject to fluctuation. Financings may be collateralized, guaranteed by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivables are recorded net of an allowance for doubtful accounts and are included in other assets. We must use judgment when deciding whether to extend credit and when calculating the required allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts includes portfolio and specific reserves. We determine the appropriate allowance by reviewing accounts receivable aging, industry trends, customer financial strength and credit standing, historical write off trends and payment history. We also regularly evaluate how changes in economic conditions may affect credit risks. Reserve methodologies are assessed annually based on historical losses and economic, business and market trends. In addition, reserves are reviewed quarterly and updated if appropriate. We may adjust the allowance for doubtful accounts if changes in customers financial condition or general economic conditions make defaults more frequent or severe. The following table gives information regarding the allowance for doubtful accounts over the past three fiscal years. Fiscal yearended June 30, Allowance fordoubtful accounts(in millions) Allowance asa percentageof customerreceivables Allowance asa percentageof revenue Reduction toallowance for customerdeductions andwrite offs (in millions) Addition to Allowance(in millions) 2011 $ 150.0 2.4 % 0.15 % $ 21.9 $ 27.2 2010 $ 140.1 2.6 % 0.14 % $ 8.5 $ 26.8 2009 $ 117.6 2.2 % 0.12 % $ 48.3 $ 51.4 A hypothetical 0.1 percent increase or decrease in the reserve as a percentage of trade receivables, sales type leases and finance notes receivables at June 30, 2011, would result in an increase or decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $6 million. We believe the reserve maintained and expenses recorded in fiscal 2011 are appropriate. At this time, we are not aware of any analytical findings or customer issues that might lead to a significant future increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of net revenue. Inventories A substantial portion of inventories (70 percent at June 30, 2011, and 73 percent at June 30, 2010) is stated at the lower of cost, using the LIFO (last in, first out) method, or market. These are primarily merchandise inventories at the core pharmaceutical distribution facilities within our Pharmaceutical segment. The LIFO impact on the consolidated statements of earnings in a given year depends on pharmaceutical price appreciation and the level of inventory. Prices for branded pharmaceuticals tend to rise, which results in an increase in cost of products sold, whereas prices for generic pharmaceuticals tend to decline, which results in a decrease in cost of products sold. 32 Table of Contents The LIFO method presumes that the most recent inventory purchases are the first items sold, so LIFO helps us better match current costs and revenue. Using LIFO, if branded pharmaceutical inventory levels decline, the result generally will be a decrease in future cost of products sold: prices for branded pharmaceuticals tend to rise over time, so our older inventory is held at a lower cost. Conversely, if generic pharmaceutical inventory levels decline, future cost of products sold generally will increase: prices for generic pharmaceuticals tend to decline over time, so our older inventory is held at a higher cost. We believe that the average cost method of inventory valuation reasonably approximates the current cost of replacing inventory within the Pharmaceutical distribution facilities. Accordingly, the LIFO reserve is the difference between (a) inventory at the lower of LIFO cost or market and (b) inventory at replacement cost determined using the average cost method of inventory valuation. In fiscal 2011 and 2010, we did not record any LIFO reserve reductions. The remaining inventory is stated at the lower of cost, using the FIFO (first in, first out) method, or market. If we had used the average cost method of inventory valuation for all inventory within the Pharmaceutical distribution facilities, the value of inventories would not have changed in fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2010. Primarily because prices for our generic pharmaceutical inventories have continued to decline, inventories at LIFO were $8 million and $38 million higher than the average cost value as of June 30, 2011, and 2010, respectively. We do not record inventories in excess of replacement cost. Inventories recorded on the consolidated balance sheets are net of reserves for excess and obsolete inventory, which were $40 million at June 30, 2011, and $34 million at June 30, 2010. We determine reserves for inventory obsolescence based on historical experience, sales trends, specific categories of inventory and age of on hand inventory. If actual conditions are less favorable than our assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required. Business Combinations The purchase price of an acquired business is allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition, including identifiable intangible assets. When an acquisition involves contingent consideration, we recognize a liability equal to the fair value of the contingent consideration obligation at the date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. We base the fair values of identifiable intangible assets on detailed valuations that require management to make significant judgments, estimates and assumptions. Critical estimates and assumptions include: expected future cash flows for trade names, customer relationships and other identifiable intangible assets; discount rates that reflect the risk factors associated with future cash flows; and estimates of useful lives. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our acquisitions, including the contingent consideration related to the P4 Healthcare acquisition. Goodwill and Other Intangibles Purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment annually or when indicators of impairment exist. Intangible assets with finite lives primarily customer relationships and patents and trademarks continue to be amortized over their useful lives. Impairment testing involves a comparison of estimated fair value to the respective carrying amount. If estimated fair value exceeds the carrying amount, then no impairment exists. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value, then a second step is performed to determine the amount of impairment which would be recorded as an expense to our results of operations. Application of goodwill impairment testing involves judgment, including but not limited to, the identification of reporting units and estimating the fair value of each reporting unit. A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. In fiscal 2011, we identified four reporting 33 Table of Contents units: Pharmaceutical segment (excluding our nuclear and pharmacy services division and Yong Yu division); Medical segment; nuclear and pharmacy services division; and Yong Yu division. Fair values can be determined using market, income or cost based approaches. Our determination of estimated fair value of the reporting units is based on a combination of income based and market based approaches. Under the market based approach we determine fair value by comparing our reporting units to similar businesses, or guideline companies whose securities are actively traded in public markets. Under the income based approach, we use a discounted cash flow model in which cash flows anticipated over several periods, plus a terminal value at the end of that time horizon, are discounted to their present value using an appropriate rate of return. To further confirm the fair value, we compare our aggregate fair value of our reporting units to our market capitalization. The use of alternate estimates and assumptions or changes in the industry or peer groups could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit and potentially result in goodwill impairment. We performed annual impairment testing in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 and concluded that there were no impairments of goodwill as the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill and other intangible assets. If we alter our impairment testing by increasing the discount rate in the discounted cash flow analysis by 1 percent, there still would not be any impairment indicated for any of our reporting units for fiscal 2011, 2010 or 2009. Vendor Reserves In the ordinary course of business, our vendors may dispute deductions taken against payments otherwise due to them or assert other billing disputes. These disputed transactions are researched and resolved based upon our policy and findings of the research performed. At any given time, there are outstanding items in various stages of research and resolution. In determining appropriate reserves for areas of exposure with our vendors, we assess historical experience and current outstanding claims. We have established various levels of reserves based on the type of claim and status of review. Though the transaction types are relatively consistent, we periodically refine our estimate methodology by updating the reserve estimate percentages to reflect actual historical experience. Changes to the estimate percentages affect the cost of products sold in the period in which the change was made. Vendor reserves were $41 million and $28 million at June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Approximately 65 percent of the vendor reserve at June 30, 2011, pertained to the Pharmaceutical segment, compared to 59 percent at the end of fiscal 2010. The reserve balance will fluctuate due to variations of outstanding claims from period to period, timing of settlements, and specific vendor issues, such as bankruptcies. The ultimate outcome of specific claims may be different than our original estimate and may require adjustment. We believe, however, that reserves recorded for such disputes are adequate based upon current facts and circumstances. Provision for Income Taxes Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and unrecognized tax benefits reflect managements assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid on items in the consolidated financial statements. 34 Table of Contents Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. The following table presents information about our tax position: Fiscalyear endedJune 30, Net deferred income taxassets (in millions) Net deferred income taxliabilities (in billions) Net loss and credit carryforwardsincluded in net deferred incometax assets (in millions) Net valuation allowance(in millions) againstdeferred tax assets (1) 2011 $ 543 $ 1.4 $ 190 $ 158 2010 $ 578 $ 1.2 $ 197 $ 183 (1) This valuation allowance primarily relates to federal, state and international loss carryforwards for which the ultimate realization of future benefits is uncertain. Expiring carryforwards and the required valuation allowances are adjusted annually. After applying the valuation allowances, we do not anticipate any limitations on our use of any of the other net deferred income tax assets described above. We believe that our estimates for the valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and unrecognized tax benefits are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. However, other companies applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. The amount we ultimately pay when matters are resolved may differ from the amounts accrued. Tax benefits from uncertain tax positions are recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed disclosure of the unrecognized tax benefits). If any of our assumptions or estimates were to change, an increase or decrease in our effective tax rate by 1 percent on earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations would have caused income tax expense to increase or decrease by $15 million for fiscal 2011. Share based Compensation All share based payments to employees, including grants of options, are recognized in the consolidated statements of earnings based on the grant date fair value of the award. The fair value of stock options is determined using a lattice valuation model. We believe the lattice model provides for better estimates because it has the ability to take into account employee exercise patterns based on changes in our stock price and other variables and it provides for a range of input assumptions. During fiscal 2011 and 2010, we calculated separate option valuations for two separate groups of employees. During fiscal 2009, we calculated separate option valuations for three separate groups of employees. The groups were determined using similar historical exercise behaviors. The expected life of the options granted was calculated from the option valuation model and represents the length of time in years that the options granted are expected to be outstanding. Expected volatilities are based on implied volatility from traded options on our Common Shares and historical volatility over a period of time commensurate with the contractual term of the option grant (7 years). As required, the forfeiture estimates will be adjusted to reflect actual forfeitures when an award vests. The actual forfeitures in future reporting periods could be higher or lower than our current estimates. 35 Table of Contents Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Our businesses are exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations as a result of certain market risks. These market risks primarily relate to foreign exchange, interest rate, and commodity price related changes. We maintain a hedging program to manage volatility related to these market exposures which employs operational, economic, and derivative financial instruments in order to mitigate risk. See Notes 1 and 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding our use of derivative instruments. Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity By nature of our global operations, our businesses are exposed to cash flow and earnings fluctuations resulting from foreign exchange rate variation. These exposures are transactional and translational in nature. Principal drivers of this foreign exchange exposure include the Canadian dollar, European euro, Mexican peso, and Thai baht. Transactional Exposure Our businesses transactional exposure arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than our functional currency or the functional currency of our subsidiaries. As part of our risk management program, at the end of each fiscal year we perform a sensitivity analysis on our forecasted transactional exposure for the upcoming fiscal year. The fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 analyses utilize a currency portfolio model, encompassing both implied volatility and historical correlation to estimate the net potential gain or loss. These analyses included the estimated impact of our hedging program, which mitigates our businesses transactional exposure. At each of June 30, 2011 and 2010, we had hedged approximately 45 percent of our businesses transactional exposures. The following table summarizes the analysis as it relates to our businesses transactional exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent increase or decrease: (in millions) 2011 2010 Net estimated transactional exposure $ 373.9 $ 318.9 Sensitivity gain/loss $ 37.4 $ 31.9 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (14.0 ) (17.8 ) Estimated net gain/loss $ 23.4 $ 14.1 Translational Exposure We have exposure related to the translation of financial statements of our foreign operations into U.S. dollars, our functional currency. We perform a similar analysis as described above related to this translational exposure. We do not typically hedge any of our translational exposure and no hedging impact was included in our analysis at June 30, 2011 and 2010. The following table summarizes our businesses translational exposure and the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening or weakening in the U.S. dollar: (in millions) 2011 2010 Net estimated translational exposure $ 54.0 $ 35.3 Sensitivity gain/loss $ 5.4 $ 3.5 Interest Rate Sensitivity We are exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of our borrowing and investing activities to maintain liquidity and fund business operations. The nature and amount of our long term and short term debt can be expected to fluctuate as a result of business requirements, market conditions and other factors. Our policy is to manage exposures to interest rates using a mix of fixed and floating rate debt as deemed appropriate by management. We utilize interest rate swap instruments to mitigate our exposure to interest rate movements. 36 Table of Contents As part of our risk management program, we perform an annual sensitivity analysis on our forecasted exposure to interest rates for the following fiscal year. This analysis assumes a hypothetical 10 percent change in interest rates. At June 30, 2011 and 2010, the potential increase or decrease in annual interest expense under this analysis as a result of this hypothetical change was $0.4 million and $0.3 million, respectively. Commodity Price Sensitivity We are exposed to market price changes for commodities, including oil based resins, cotton, latex, and diesel fuel. We typically purchase raw materials at market prices and some finished goods at prices based in part on a commodity price index. As part of our risk management program, we perform sensitivity analysis on our forecasted commodity exposure for the following fiscal year. Our forecasted commodity exposure as of June 30, 2011 increased from the prior year primarily as a result of contract adjustments with vendors, volatility of commodity prices, changes in purchasing volumes and changes in the mix of items we buy. We have updated the prior year comparable commodity exposure to include all items meeting this criteria. At June 30, 2011 and 2010, we had hedged a portion of these commodity exposures (see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). The table below summarizes our analysis of these forecasted commodity exposures and a hypothetical 10 percent fluctuation in commodity prices as of June 30, 2011 and 2010: (in millions) 2011 2010 Estimated commodity exposure $ 472.8 $ 362.3 Sensitivity gain/loss 47.2 36.2 Estimated offsetting impact of hedges (2.1 ) (1.2 ) Estimated net gain/loss $ 45.1 $ 35.1 We also have additional exposure to commodities through the purchase of finished goods and various other energy related commodities, including natural gas and electricity through our normal course of business where our contracts are not directly tied to a commodity index. We believe our total gross range of exposure to commodities, including the items listed in the table above, is $500 million to $600 million as of June 30, 2012. 37 Table of Contents 
 
