FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20041214114237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
The disclosure set forth in Item 5.02 below is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On December 14, 2004, Juniper Networks announced that it has appointed Robert Dykes to the position of Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer, effective January 1, 2005. Mr. Dykes, age 55, is currently employed by Flextronics International Ltd., a leading provider of advanced electronics manufacturing services. Mr. Dykes has served as Chief Financial Officer of Flextronics since February 1997 and as President, Systems Group since February 1999. Prior to joining Flextronics, Mr. Dykes served for nine years as executive vice president, Worldwide Operations and Chief Financial Officer of Symantec Corporation, a provider of information security products. Mr. Dykes also held CFO roles at industrial robots manufacturer, Adept Technology, and at disc drive controller manufacturer, Xebec. He also held senior financial management positions at Ford Motor Company. He received a Bachelor of Commerce and Administration from Victoria University in Wellington, New Zealand. On December 13, 2004, the Company entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Dykes, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. Under the employment agreement, Mr. Dykes will be employed on an "at will" basis and will: (i) receive an annual base salary of $400,000, (ii) be eligible for a target bonus equal to 100% of his base salary, and (iii) receive an initial stock option grant of 500,000 shares of the Company's common stock. This option will have a ten year term, an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant, and will vest over a four year term, such that the options will become exercisable as to 25% of the total grant on the one-year anniversary of the commencement of his employment and become exercisable as to 1/48th of the total grant per month thereafter. If the Company terminates Mr. Dykes' employment for a reason other than Cause (as defined in the agreement), Mr. Dykes will be entitled to certain additional benefits provided in the agreement. This description of the employment agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the provisions of the agreement attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. Mr. Dykes will fill the position currently held by Marcel Gani. Mr. Gani is assuming the role of chief of staff. A copy of the press release issued by the Company is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

November 30, 2004
Mr. Robert B. Dykes 12200 Kate Drive Los Altos, CA 94022
Dear Bob:
We are delighted to extend an offer to you to join Juniper Networks Inc. ("JNI" or the "Company") as Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer reporting to me. This letter will confirm the terms of your employment with the Company as follows:
The terms of this offer are contingent upon the approval of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
For purposes of federal immigration law, you will be required to provide to JNI documentary evidence of your identity and eligibility for employment in the United States. Such documentation must be provided to us within three business days of your date of hire with JNI, or our employment relationship with you may be terminated. Documents, which may be submitted for inspection, include one of the following: current passport, alien registration card, or certificate of U. S. citizenship or naturalization. Alternately, you may submit one of each of the following two categories: (1) current state issued driver's license or I.D. card with photograph, U. S. military card; (2) original social security card, birth certificate issued by state, county or municipal authority bearing a seal or other certification, or unexpired INS Employment authorization.
This offer is contingent upon your obtaining the requisite immigration status and employment authorization. If you are a foreign national requiring work authorization to begin employment, you must contact the Company's Immigration Department at to initiate the visa process. The Company will submit a petition on your behalf to obtain employment authorization, as well as file visa applications for your immediate dependent family members. The Company will pay the legal fees and costs related to these filings. Because the number of work visas available each year is limited by the U.S. government, the Company reserves the right to withdraw or suspend this offer if the Company is not able to obtain work authorization for you in a reasonable period of time. Please note that if you currently have employment authorization such as practical, curricular or academic training (F-1 or J-1), you must contact the Company's Immigration Department before beginning employment.
immigration@juniper.net
If you choose to accept this offer, your employment with JNI will be voluntarily entered into and will be for no specified period. As a result, you will be free to resign at any time, for any reason or for no reason, as you deem appropriate. JNI will have a similar right and may conclude its employment relationship with you at any time, with or without cause.
Bob, let me close by reaffirming our belief that the skill and background you bring to Juniper Networks will be instrumental to the future success of the company. We look forward to you joining our team. If you have any questions regarding this offer, please contact me.
You may accept this offer by signing below and returning the original letter along with the enclosed paperwork to June Weaver at 1194 N. Mathilda Avenue, Sunnyvale, CA. 94089. Please retain the extra original letter for your personal records.
Very truly yours,
/s/ Scott Kriens Scott Kriens Chief Executive Officer
JUNIPER NETWORKS, INC.
I accept the terms of this letter and agree to keep the terms of this letter confidential.
Start date. Jan 1, 2005

Kathy Durr Juniper Networks, Inc. 408-745-5058
Media Contact:
kdurr@juniper.net
Michelle Levine Juniper Networks, Inc. 408-936-2775
Investor Relations Contact:
mlevine@juniper.net
- Juniper Networks, Inc. (Nasdaq: JNPR) today announced the appointment of Robert R. B. Dykes to the position of chief financial officer (CFO) and executive vice president, Business Operations. Currently CFO and president, Systems Group of global Electronics Manufacturing Services provider, Flextronics, Dykes brings more than 30 years' fiscal management experience to Juniper Networks, together with a solid track record in building world class operational organizations. Starting on January 1 2005, Dykes will oversee all business systems functions at Juniper Networks, and will have responsibility for finance, legal, information technology, human resources, investor relations and manufacturing operations.
SUNNYVALE, Calif., December 14, 2004
st
Dykes will succeed Marcel Gani, who will remain with the company in the role of chief of staff. Gani will assist chairman and CEO, Scott Kriens, in driving some of the internal and external tasks involving overall strategy and direction.
"We're very excited to welcome Bob to the Juniper team," commented Scott Kriens, chairman and CEO, Juniper Networks. "With his financial acumen, solid operational background and strategic insight, Bob will be a key asset as we continue to scale the company and extend our worldwide operations. This is another important step in the continuing expansion and strengthening of our management team."
Dykes joins Juniper Networks from Flextronics where, in his role as CFO and president, Systems Group, he led financial and operational functions for one of the largest and most complex manufacturing organizations in the world. During his seven year tenure he helped guide the company's expansion from $500 million to $14 billion in revenue. Prior to that, Dykes spent 9 years as executive vice president, Worldwide Operations and CFO of Symantec Corporation where, having guided the company through its IPO, he built a world class global operations organization and helped grow the company's revenues from $40 million to $600 million. Dykes also held CFO roles at industrial robots manufacturer, Adept Technology and at disc drive controller manufacturer, Xebec. He also held senior financial management positions at Ford Motor Company.
Dykes holds a Bachelor of Commerce in Administration degree from Victoria University, Wellington, New Zealand.
Juniper Networks transforms the business of networking by creating competitive advantage for our customers with superior networking and security solutions. Juniper Networks is dedicated to customers who derive strategic value from their networks, including global network operators, enterprises, government agencies and research and educational institutions. Juniper Networks' portfolio of networking and security solutions supports the complex scale, security and performance requirements of the world's most demanding mission critical networks. Additional information can be found at .
About Juniper Networks, Inc.
www.juniper.net
Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, NetScreen, NetScreen Technologies, the NetScreen logo, NetScreen-Global Pro, ScreenOS, and GigaScreen are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries.


