FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20041014161833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 14, 2004, Juniper Networks, Inc. ("Juniper Networks") issued a press release and held a conference call regarding its financial results for the quarter ending September 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference herein. The information in this report shall be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement heretofore or hereafter filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except to the extent that such information is superceded by information as of a subsequent date that is included in or incorporated by reference into such registration statement. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits Exhibit No. Description 99.1 Press Release of Juniper Networks, Inc. issued on October 14, 2004
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, Juniper Networks uses non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income and earnings per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expense and income items. These non-GAAP adjustments are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future. Specifically, we believe the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain expense and income items that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results. In addition, since we have historically reported non-GAAP results to the investment community, we believe the inclusion of non-GAAP numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting. Further, these non-GAAP results are one of the primary indicators managemen t uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Sunnyvale, CA  October 14, 2004  Juniper Networks, Inc. (NASDAQ: JNPR) today reported its results for the quarter ending September 30, 2004.
Net revenues for the third quarter were $375.0 million, compared with $172.1 million for the same period last year, an increase of 118 percent.
GAAP net income for the third quarter was $48.8 million or $0.09 per share, compared with a GAAP net income of $7.2 million or $0.02 per share in the third quarter of 2003. Non-GAAP net income was $73.5 million or $0.13 per share, compared with non-GAAP net income of $14.7 million or $0.04 per share in the third quarter of 2003. See the table at the bottom of the Non-GAAP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for a reconciliation of the non-GAAP net income to the GAAP net income.
Cash provided by operations was $105.2 million for the third quarter, compared to cash provided by operations of $42.9 million for the same period last year. Capital expenditures and depreciation during the third quarter were $25.0 million and $10.6 million, respectively.
"We are once again pleased with our revenue and earnings growth for the quarter, and as a result we are investing that success in scaling the business for continued expansion," said Scott Kriens, chairman and CEO of Juniper Networks. "We see consistent and strong reinforcement for our strategy and will remain focused on capitalizing on the opportunities we see and the position we enjoy in the marketplace today."
Juniper Networks will host a conference call web cast today, October 14, 2004 at 1:45 p.m. PT/4:45 p.m. ET at: http://www.juniper.net/company/investor/conferencecall.html. The conference call will be archived on the Juniper Networks website until November 30, 2004. A replay will be accessible by telephone after 3:00 p.m. PT, through October 21, 2004 by dialing 800-633-8284 (or 402-977-9140), reservation number, 21209936. The replays will be available 24 hours/day, including weekends.
Juniper Networks transforms the business of networking by creating competitive advantage for our customers with superior networking and security solutions. Juniper Networks is dedicated to customers who derive strategic value from their networks, including global network operators, enterprises, government agencies and research and educational institutions. Juniper Networks' portfolio of networking and security solutions supports the complex scale, security and performance requirements of the world's most demanding mission critical networks. Additional information can be found at .
About Juniper Networks, Inc.
www.juniper.net
Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, NetScreen, NetScreen Technologies, the NetScreen logo, NetScreen-Global Pro, ScreenOS, and GigaScreen are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries.
Statements in this release concerning Juniper Network's business outlook, future financial and operating results, overall future prospects and stock repurchase program are forward looking statements that involve a number of uncertainties and risks. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements in this release as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the risk factors described in the Company's most recent Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All statements made in this press release are made only as of the date set forth at the beginning of this release. Juniper Networks undertakes no obligation to update the information in this release in the event facts or circumstances subsequently change after the date of this press release.
The non-GAAP statements exclude restructuring costs, amortization of purchased intangibles and deferred stock compensation, in-process research and development, integration costs, write-down of investments, gain (loss) on redemption of convertible subordinated notes, gain on sale of investments and a prior period acquisition related adjustment. See reconciliation to GAAP information below:
(1)


