FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20051109120556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On November 3, 2005, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the "Company") adopted an amendment to the Juniper Networks, Inc. 1996 Stock Plan (the "Plan") to add the ability to issue Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") under the Plan, as described in more detail below. Since its adoption in 1996, the Plan has permitted the Company to make grants of restricted stock. In the case of such an award, the entire number of shares subject to a restricted stock award would be issued at the time of grant. Such shares could be subject to vesting provisions based on time or other conditions specified by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee of the Board. The Company would have the right to repurchase unvested shares subject to a restricted stock award if the grantees service to the Company terminated prior to full vesting of the award. Until repurchased, such unvested shares would be considered outstanding for dividend, voting and other purposes. In contrast to restricted stock awards, the newly-permitted RSUs would represent an obligation of the Company to issue unrestricted shares of common stock to the grantee only when and to the extent that the vesting criteria of the award are satisfied. As in the case of restricted stock awards, vesting criteria for RSUs can be based on time or other conditions specified by the Board or an authorized committee of the Board. However, until vesting occurs, the grantee is not entitled to any stockholder rights with respect to the unvested shares. In addition to approving the amendment to the Plan, the Board approved a form of agreement pursuant to which RSUs could be granted. The Plan as amended and the form of Notice of Grant and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement are attached to this report as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibit No. Description 10.1 Juniper Networks, Inc. Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Plan 10.2 Form of Notice of Grant and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for the Juniper Networks, Inc. Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Plan
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
1. . The purposes of this Stock Plan are to attract and retain the best available personnel for positions of substantial responsibility, to provide additional incentives to Employees and Consultants of the Company and its Subsidiaries and to promote the success of the Company's business. The Plan permits the grant of Incentive Stock Options, Nonstatutory Stock Options, Stock Purchase Rights and Restricted Stock Units.
Purposes of the Plan
2. . As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
(a) "" means the Board or any of its Committees appointed pursuant to Section 4 of the Plan.
Administrator
(b) "" means the legal requirements relating to the administration of stock plans under U.S. state corporate laws, U.S. federal and state securities laws, the Code and the applicable laws of any foreign country or jurisdiction where Awards are, or will be, granted under the Plan.
Applicable Laws
(c) "" means, individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of Options, Stock Purchase Rights, or Restricted Stock Units.
Award
(d) "" means the written or electronic agreement setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to each Award granted under the Plan. The Award Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Award Agreement
(e) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(f) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
(g) "" means a Committee appointed by the Board of Directors in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.
Committee
(h) "" means the Common Stock of the Company.
Common Stock
(i) "" means Juniper Networks, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
(j) "" means any person who is engaged by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary to render consulting or advisory services to such entities.
Consultant
(k) "" means that the employment or consulting relationship with the Company, any Parent or Subsidiary is not interrupted or terminated. Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant shall not be considered interrupted in the case of (i) any leave of absence approved by the Company (provided, however, that the Administrator shall be permitted to stop vesting on any leave of absence, on an individual, aggregate or policy basis, even if such leave of absence is approved by the Company) or (ii) transfers between locations of the Company or between the Company, its Parent, any Subsidiary, or any successor. A leave of absence approved by the Company shall include sick leave, military leave, or any other personal leave approved by an authorized representative of the Company. For purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no such leave may exceed 90 days, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave is guaranteed by statute or contract, including Company policies. If reemployment upon expiration of a leave of absence approved by the Company is not so guaranteed, on the 181st day of such leave any Incentive Stock Option held by the Optionee shall cease to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and shall be treated for tax purposes as a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant
(l) "" means a member of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Director
(m) "" means any person, including Officers and Directors, employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. The payment of a Director's fee by the Company shall not be sufficient to constitute "employment" by the Company.
Employee
(n) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
(o) "" means, as of any date, the value of Common Stock determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
(i) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or a national market system, including without limitation the Nasdaq National Market or The Nasdaq SmallCap Market of The Nasdaq Stock Market, its Fair Market Value shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such exchange or system for the last market trading day prior to the time of determination, as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable;
(ii) If the Common Stock is regularly quoted by a recognized securities dealer but selling prices are not reported, its Fair Market Value shall be the mean between the high bid and low asked prices for the Common Stock on the last market trading day prior to the day of determination; or
(iii) In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value thereof shall be determined in good faith by the Administrator.
(p) "" means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
Incentive Stock Option
(q) "" means an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonstatutory Stock Option
(r) "" means a person who is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Officer
(s) "" means a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan.
Option
(t) "" means the Common Stock subject to an Option or a Stock Purchase Right.
Optioned Stock
(u) "" means an Employee or Consultant who receives an Option or Stock Purchase Right.
Optionee
(v) "" means a "parent corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent
(w) "" means the holder of an outstanding Award granted under the Plan.
Participant
(x) "" means this 1996 Stock Plan.
Plan
(y) "" means shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant to a grant of a Stock Purchase Right under Section 11 below.
Restricted Stock
(z) "" means an Award granted pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan.
Restricted Stock Unit
(aa) "" means Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Section 16(b)
(bb) "" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 13 below.
Share
(cc) "" means a right to purchase Common Stock pursuant to Section 11 below.
Stock Purchase Right
(dd) "" means a "subsidiary corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary
3. . Subject to the provisions of Section 13 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be subject to Awards under the Plan is 164,623,039 Shares, plus an annual increase to be added on the first day of the Company's fiscal year beginning in 2005 equal to the lesser of (i) 18,000,000 shares, (ii) 5% of the outstanding shares on such date or (iii) a lesser amount determined by the Board. The Shares may be authorized but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock.
Stock Subject to the Plan
If an Award expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised in full, or is surrendered pursuant to an option exchange program, the unpurchased Shares which were subject thereto shall become available for future grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated). However, Shares that have actually been issued under the Plan, upon exercise of either an Option or Stock Purchase Right or upon the vesting of a Restricted Stock Unit, shall not be returned to the Plan and shall not become available for future distribution under the Plan, except that if Shares of Restricted Stock are repurchased by the Company at their original purchase price, and the original purchaser of such Shares did not receive any benefits of ownership of such Shares, such Shares shall become available for future grant under the Plan. For purposes of the preceding sentence, voting rights shall not be considered a benefit of Share ownership.
4. .
Administration of the Plan
(a) .
Procedure
(i) . The Plan may be administered by different Committees with respect to different groups of Service Providers.
Multiple Administrative Bodies
(ii) . To the extent that the Administrator determines it to be desirable to qualify Options granted hereunder as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Plan shall be administered by a Committee of two or more "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Section 162(m)
(iii) . To the extent desirable to qualify transactions hereunder as exempt under Rule 16b-3, the transactions contemplated hereunder shall be structured to satisfy the requirements for exemption under Rule 16b-3.
Rule 16b-3
(iv) . Other than as provided above, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board or (B) a Committee, which committee shall be constituted to satisfy Applicable Laws.
Other Administration
(b) . Subject to the provisions of the Plan and, in the case of a Committee, the specific duties delegated by the Board to such Committee, and subject to the approval of any relevant authorities, including the approval, if required, of any stock exchange upon which the Common Stock is listed, the Administrator shall have the authority in its discretion:
Powers of the Administrator
(i) to determine the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, in accordance with Section 2(o) of the Plan;
(ii) to select the Consultants and Employees to whom Awards may from time to time be granted hereunder;
(iii) to determine whether and to what extent Awards or any combination thereof are granted hereunder;
(iv) to determine the number of Shares to be covered by each Award granted hereunder;
(v) to approve forms of agreement for use under the Plan;
(vi) to determine the terms and conditions of any award granted hereunder;
(vii) to determine whether and under what circumstances an Option may be settled in cash under subsection 9(e) instead of Common Stock;
(viii) to reduce the exercise price of any Option to the then current Fair Market Value if the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock covered by such Option has declined since the date the Option was granted; and
(ix) to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and Awards granted pursuant to the Plan.
(c) . All decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Administrator shall be final and binding on all Participants and any other holders of any Awards.
Effect of Administrator's Decision
5. .
Eligibility
(a) Nonstatutory Stock Options, Stock Purchase Rights and Restricted Stock Units may be granted to Employees, Consultants and Directors. Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees. An Employee or Consultant who has been granted an Option, Stock Purchase Right or a Restricted Stock Unit may, if otherwise eligible, be granted additional Options, Stock Purchase Rights or Restricted Stock Units.
(b) Each Option shall be designated in the written option agreement as either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option. However, notwithstanding such designation, to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by the Optionee during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company and any Parent or Subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, such Options shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options. For purposes of this Section 5(b), Incentive Stock Options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted. The Fair Market Value of the Shares shall be determined as of the time the Option with respect to such Shares is granted.
(c) Neither the Plan nor any Award shall confer upon any Participant any right with respect to continuation of his or her employment or consulting relationship with the Company, nor shall it interfere in any way with his or her right or the Company's right to terminate his or her employment or consulting relationship at any time, with or without cause.
(d) The following limitations shall apply to grants of Options to Employees:
(i) No Employee shall be granted, in any fiscal year of the Company, Options to purchase more than 6,000,000 Shares.
(ii) In connection with his or her initial employment, an Employee may be granted Options to purchase up to an additional 12,000,000 Shares which shall not count against the limit set forth in subsection (i) above.
The foregoing limitations shall be adjusted proportionately in connection with any change in the Company's capitalization as described in Section 13.
If an Option is cancelled in the same fiscal year of the Company in which it was granted (other than in connection with a transaction described in Section 13), the cancelled Option shall be counted against the limit set forth in subsection (i) above. For this purpose, if the exercise price of an Option is reduced, such reduction will be treated as a cancellation of the Option and the grant of a new Option.
6. . The Plan shall become effective upon the earlier to occur of its adoption by the Board of Directors or its approval by the shareholders of the Company, as described in Section 19 of the Plan. It shall continue in effect for a term of ten (10) years unless sooner terminated under Section 15 of the Plan.
Term of Plan
7. . The term of each Option shall be the term stated in the Option Award Agreement; provided, however, that the term shall be no more than ten (10) years from the date of grant thereof. In the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to an Optionee who, at the time the Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the term of the Option shall be five (5) years from the date of grant thereof or such shorter term as may be provided in the Option Agreement.
Term of Option
8. .
Option Exercise Price and Consideration
(a) The per share exercise price for the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an Option shall be such price as is determined by the Administrator, but shall be subject to the following:
(i) In the case of an Incentive Stock Option:
(1) granted to an Employee who, at the time of grant of such Option, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 110% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant;
(2) granted to any other Employee, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.
(ii) In the case of a Nonstatutory Stock Option, the per Share exercise price shall be determined by the Administrator. In the case of a Nonstatutory Stock Option intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.
(b) The consideration to be paid for the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an Option, including the method of payment, shall be determined by the Administrator (and, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, shall be determined at the time of grant). Such consideration may consist of (1) cash, (2) check, (3) other Shares which (x) in the case of Shares acquired upon exercise of an Option, have been owned by the Optionee for more than six months on the date of surrender, and (y) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which such Option shall be exercised, (4) delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with such other documentation as the Administrator and a broker, if applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and delivery to the Company of the sale or loan proceeds required to pay the exercise price, (5) any other consideration permitted by applicable law, or (6) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment. In making its determination as to the type of consideration to accept, the Administrator shall consider if acceptance of such consideration may be reasonably expected to benefit the Company.
9. .
Exercise of Option
(a) . Any Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator, including performance criteria with respect to the Company and/or the Optionee, and as shall be permissible under the terms of the Plan.
Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Shareholder
An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
An Option shall be deemed to be exercised when written notice of such exercise has been given to the Company in accordance with the terms of the Option by the person entitled to exercise the Option and full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised has been received by the Company. Full payment may, as authorized by the Administrator, consist of any consideration and method of payment allowable under Section 8(b) hereof. Until the issuance (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) of the stock certificate evidencing such Shares, no right to vote, receive dividends or any other rights as a shareholder shall exist with respect to the Optioned Stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option. The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such stock certificate promptly upon exercise of the Option. No adjustment shall be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 12 hereof.
Exercise of an Option in any manner shall result in a decrease in the number of Shares which thereafter may be available, both for purposes of the Plan and for sale under the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the Option is exercised.
(b) . In the event of termination of an Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant (but not in the event of an Optionee's change of status from Employee to Consultant (in which case an Employee's Incentive Stock Option shall automatically convert to a Nonstatutory Stock Option on the date three (3) months and one day following such change of status) or from Consultant to Employee), such Optionee may, but only within such period of time as is determined by the Administrator, with such determination in the case of an Incentive Stock Option not exceeding ninety (90) days after the date of such termination (but in no event later than the expiration date of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement), exercise his or her Option to the extent that the Optionee was entitled to exercise it at the date of such termination. To the extent that the Optionee was not entitled to exercise the Option at the date of such termination, or if the Optionee does not exercise such Option to the extent so entitled within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.
Termination of Employment or Consulting Relationship
(c) . In the event of termination of an Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant as a result of his or her disability, the Optionee may, but only within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of such termination (and in no event later than the expiration date of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement), exercise the Option to the extent otherwise entitled to exercise it at the date of such termination. If such disability is not a "disability" as such term is defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option such Incentive Stock Option shall automatically cease to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and shall be treated for tax purposes as a Nonstatutory Stock Option on the day three months and one day following such termination. To the extent that the Optionee was not entitled to exercise the Option at the date of termination, or if the Optionee does not exercise such Option to the extent so entitled within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.
Disability of Optionee
(d) . In the event of the death of an Optionee, the Option may be exercised at any time within on hundred eighty (180) days following the date of death (but in no event later than the expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Notice of Grant) by the Optionee's estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance, but only to the extent that the Optionee was entitled to exercise the Option on the date of death. If, at the time of death, the Optionee was not entitled to exercise his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the unexercisable portion of the Option shall immediately revert to the Plan. If, after the Optionee's death, the Optionee's estate or a person who acquires the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance does not exercise the Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.
Death of Optionee
(e) . The Administrator may at any time offer to buy out for a payment in cash or Shares, an Option previously granted, based on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall establish and communicate to the Optionee at the time that such offer is made.
Buyout Provisions
10. . Awards may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the Participant, only by the Participant.
Non-Transferability of Awards
11. .
Stock Purchase Rights
(a) . Stock Purchase Rights may be issued either alone, in addition to, or in tandem with other awards granted under the Plan and/or cash awards made outside of the Plan. After the Administrator determines that it will offer Stock Purchase Rights under the Plan, it shall advise the offeree in writing of the terms, conditions and restrictions related to the offer, including the number of Shares that such person shall be entitled to purchase, the price to be paid, and the time within which such person must accept such offer, which shall in no event exceed thirty (30) days from the date upon which the Administrator makes the determination to grant the Stock Purchase Right. The offer shall be accepted by execution of a Restricted Stock purchase agreement in the form determined by the Administrator. Shares purchased pursuant to the grant of a Stock Purchase Right shall be referred to herein as "Restricted Stock."
Rights to Purchase
(b) . Unless the Administrator determines otherwise, the Restricted Stock purchase agreement shall grant the Company a repurchase option exercisable upon the voluntary or involuntary termination of the purchaser's employment with the Company for any reason (including death or disability). The purchase price for Shares repurchased pursuant to the Restricted Stock purchase agreement shall be the original price paid by the purchaser and may be paid by cancellation of any indebtedness of the purchaser to the Company. The repurchase option shall lapse at such rate as the Administrator may determine.
Repurchase Option
(c) . The Restricted Stock purchase agreement shall contain such other terms, provisions and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan as may be determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion. In addition, the provisions of Restricted Stock purchase agreements need not be the same with respect to each purchaser.
Other Provisions
(d) . Once the Stock Purchase Right is exercised, the purchaser shall have rights equivalent to those of a shareholder and shall be a shareholder when his or her purchase is entered upon the records of the duly authorized transfer agent of the Company. No adjustment shall be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the Stock Purchase Right is exercised, except as provided in Section 13 of the Plan.
Rights as a Shareholder
12. .
Restricted Stock Units
(a) . Restricted Stock Units may be granted at any time and from time to time as determined by the Administrator. The Administrator shall have complete discretion to determine (i) the number of Shares subject to a Restricted Stock Unit award granted to any Participant, and (ii) the conditions that must be satisfied, which typically will be based principally or solely on continued service but may include a performance-based component, upon which is conditioned the grant or vesting of Restricted Stock Units. Restricted Stock Units shall be granted in the form of units to acquire Shares. Each such unit shall be the equivalent of one Share for purposes of determining the number of Shares subject to an Award. Until the Shares are issued, no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to the units to acquire Shares.
Grant
(b) . The Administrator shall set vesting criteria in its discretion, which, depending on the extent to which the criteria are met, will determine the number of Shares that will be paid out to the Participant. The Administrator may set vesting criteria based upon the achievement of Company-wide, business unit, or individual goals (including, but not limited to, continued employment), or any other basis determined by the Administrator in its discretion.
Vesting Criteria and Other Terms
(c) . Upon meeting the applicable vesting criteria, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a payout as specified in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time after the grant of Restricted Stock Units, the Administrator, in its sole discretion, may reduce or waive any vesting criteria that must be met to receive a payout.
Earning Restricted Stock Units
(d) . Payment of earned Restricted Stock Units shall be made as soon as practicable after the date(s) set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. The Administrator shall pay earned Restricted Stock Units in Shares.
Form and Timing of Payment
(e) . On the date set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, all unearned Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited to the Company.
Cancellation
13. .
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization or Merger
(a) . Subject to any required action by the shareholders of the Company, the number of shares of Common Stock covered by each outstanding Award, and the number of shares of Common Stock which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Awards have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Award, as well as the price per share of Common Stock covered by each such outstanding Option or Stock Purchase Right, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company. The conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Such adjustment shall be made by the Board, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an Award.
Changes in Capitalization
(b) . In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Administrator shall notify the Participant at least fifteen (15) days prior to such proposed action. To the extent it has not been previously exercised, the Award shall terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action.
Dissolution or Liquidation
(c) . In the event of a merger of the Company with or into another corporation, each outstanding Award may be assumed or an equivalent award may be substituted by such successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation. If, in such event, an Award is not assumed or substituted, the Award shall terminate as of the date of the closing of the merger. For the purposes of this paragraph, the Award shall be considered assumed if, following the merger, the Award confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share subject to the Award immediately prior to the merger, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the merger by holders of Common Stock for each Share held on the effective date of the transaction (and if the holders are offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares). If such consideration received in the merger is not solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent, the Administrator may, with the consent of the successor corporation, provide for the consideration to be received upon the exercise of the Award, for each Share subject to the Award, to be solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent equal in fair market value to the per share consideration received by holders of Common Stock in the merger.
Merger
14. . The date of grant of an Award shall, for all purposes, be the date on which the Administrator makes the determination granting such Award, or such other date as is determined by the Administrator. Notice of the determination shall be given to each Employee or Consultant to whom an Award is so granted within a reasonable time after the date of such grant.
Time of Granting Awards
15. .
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
(a) . The Board may at any time amend, alter, suspend or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration, suspension or discontinuation shall be made which would impair the rights of any Participant under any grant theretofore made, without his or her consent. In addition, to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act or with Section 422 of the Code (or any other applicable law or regulation, including the requirements of the NASD or an established stock exchange), the Company shall obtain shareholder approval of any Plan amendment in such a manner and to such a degree as required.
Amendment and Termination
(b) . Any such amendment or termination of the Plan shall not affect Awards already granted, and such Awards shall remain in full force and effect as if this Plan had not been amended or terminated, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Participant and the Administrator, which agreement must be in writing and signed by the Participant and the Company.
Effect of Amendment or Termination
16. . Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Award unless the exercise of such Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all relevant provisions of law, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
As a condition to the exercise of an Option or Stock Purchase Right, the Company may require the person exercising such Option or Stock Purchase Right to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required by any of the aforementioned relevant provisions of law.
17. . The Company, during the term of this Plan, shall at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
Reservation of Shares
The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
18. . Awards shall be evidenced by written agreements in such form as the Administrator shall approve from time to time.
Agreements
19. . Continuance of the Plan shall be subject to approval by the shareholders of the Company within twelve (12) months before or after the date the Plan is adopted. Such shareholder approval shall be obtained in the degree and manner required under Applicable Laws and the rules of any stock exchange upon which the Common Stock is listed.
Shareholder Approval

Exhibit 10.2
Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Plan (the "Plan") shall have the same defined meanings in this Notice of Grant.
Name:
     
You have been granted Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") pursuant to the Juniper Networks, Inc. Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Plan, (the "Plan"). Each such RSU is equivalent to one Share of the Company's Common Stock. None of the RSUs will be issued (nor will you have the rights of a shareholder with respect to the underlying shares) until the vesting conditions described below are satisfied. Additional terms of this grant are as follows:
     
You acknowledge and agree that this agreement and the vesting schedule set forth herein do not constitute an express or implied promise of continued engagement as an employee for the vesting period, for any period, or at all, and shall not interfere with your right or the Company's right to terminate your relationship as an employee at any time, with or without cause.
The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to RSUs awarded under the Plan or future RSUs that may be awarded under the Plan by electronic means. By your acknowledgment, you hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
You hereby agree to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions relating to the Plan and this RSU. Further, you and the Company agree that this Notice of Grant, the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement and the Plan constitute your entire agreement with respect to this RSU and may not be modified adversely to your interest except by means of a writing signed by the Company and you.
1. . The Company hereby grants to the Participant an award of Restricted Stock Units ("RSU"), as set forth in the Notice of Grant and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Juniper Networks, Inc. Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Plan ( the "Plan").
Grant
2. . Each RSU represents the right to receive one Share of the Company's Common Stock on the Vesting Date. Unless and until the RSUs vest, the Participant will have no right to receive Shares under such RSUs. Prior to actual distribution of Shares pursuant to any vested RSUs, such RSUs will represent an unsecured obligation of the Company, payable (if at all) only from the general assets of the Company.
Company's Obligation
3. . Subject to paragraph 4, the RSUs awarded by this Agreement will vest in the Participant according to the vesting schedule specified in the Notice of Grant.
Vesting Schedule
4. . Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this Agreement or the Notice of Grant, if the Participant ceases to be a Service Provider for any or no reason prior to vesting, the unvested RSUs Awarded by this Agreement will thereupon be forfeited at no cost to the Company.
Forfeiture upon Termination as Service Provider
5. . Any RSUs that vest in accordance with paragraph 3 will be paid to the Participant (or in the event of the Participant's death, to his or her estate) in Shares, provided that to the extent determined appropriate by the Administrator, any national, state and local withholding of taxes and/or social security contributions with respect to such RSUs, if applicable, will be paid by the Participant. The tax and/or social security contributions payment shall generally be made through the Participant's brokerage account designated by the Company. The Participant may choose to cover the tax and/or social security contributions payment through (i) cash on deposit at the Broker, or (ii) by electing to have the Broker sell vested shares to cover taxes, social security contributions and related fees. However, should the Participant's account have insufficient funds, the Participant will be deemed to have elected to have the Broker sell vested shares to cover taxes, social security contributions and related fees. The Participant acknowledges and agrees that the amount of withholding taxes, social security contributions and related fees to be satisfied by selling vested shares be in excess, the Company will refund the excess amount to him or her within a reasonable period without any interest.
Payment after Vesting
6. . Any distribution or delivery to be made to the Participant under this Agreement will, if the Participant is then deceased, be made to the administrator or executor of the Participant's estate. Any such administrator or executor must furnish the Administrator with (a) written notice of his or her status as transferee, and (b) evidence satisfactory to the Administrator to establish the validity of the transfer and compliance with any laws or regulations pertaining to said transfer.
Payments after Death
7. . Neither the Participant nor any person claiming under or through the Participant will have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company in respect of any Shares deliverable hereunder unless and until certificates representing such Shares will have been issued, recorded on the records of the Company or its transfer agents or registrars, and delivered to the Participant or Participant's broker.
Rights as Stockholder
8. . The Participant's service with the Company is on an at-will basis only. Accordingly, the terms of the Participant's service with the Company will be determined from time to time by the Company, and the Company will have the right, which is hereby expressly reserved, to terminate or change the terms of the service of the Participant at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without good cause or notice.
No Effect on Employment
9. . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement will be addressed to the Company, in care of Stock Plan Administration at Juniper Networks, Inc., 1194 North Mathilda Avenue, Sunnyvale, CA 94089, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing.
Address for Notices
10. . Except to the limited extent provided in paragraph 6, this grant and the rights and privileges conferred hereby will not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any way (whether by operation of law or otherwise) and will not be subject to sale under execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this grant, or any right or privilege conferred hereby, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process, this grant and the rights and privileges conferred hereby immediately will become null and void.
Grant is Not Transferable
11. . The Shares issued as payment for vested RSUs Awarded under this Agreement will be registered under the federal securities laws and will be freely tradable upon receipt. However, any subsequent sale of the Shares will be subject to any market blackout-period that may be imposed by the Company and must comply with the Company's insider trading policies, and any other applicable securities laws.
Restrictions on Sale of Securities
12. . Subject to the limitation on the transferability of this grant contained herein, this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs, legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the parties hereto.
Binding Agreement
13. . The Company shall not be required to issue any certificate or certificates for Shares hereunder prior to fulfillment of all the following conditions: (a) the admission of such Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; (b) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such Shares under any state or federal law or under the rulings or regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission or any other governmental regulatory body, which the Administrator shall, in its absolute discretion, deem necessary or advisable; (c) the obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any state or federal governmental agency, which the Administrator shall, in its absolute discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; and (d) the lapse of such reasonable period of time following the date of vesting of the RSUs as the Administrator may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience.
Additional Conditions to Issuance of Certificates for Shares
14. . This Agreement is subject to all terms and provisions of the Plan. In the event of a conflict between one or more provisions of this Agreement and one or more provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan will govern.
Plan Governs
15. . The Administrator will have the power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules (including, but not limited to, the determination of whether or not any RSUs have vested). All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Administrator in good faith will be final and binding upon the Participant, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Administrator will be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or this Agreement.
Administrator Authority
16. . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
Captions
17. . In the event that any provision in this Agreement will be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Agreement Severable
18. . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding of the parties on the subjects covered. The Participant expressly warrants that he or she is not accepting this Agreement in reliance on any promises, representations, or inducements other than those contained herein. Modifications to this Agreement or the Plan can be made only in an express written contract executed by a duly authorized officer of the Company.
Modifications to the Agreement
19. . By accepting this RSU, the Participant expressly warrants that he or she has received a right to purchase stock under the Plan, and has received, read and understood a description of the Plan. The Participant understands that the Plan is discretionary in nature and may be modified, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time.
Amendment, Suspension or Termination of the Plan
20. . This grant of RSUs shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of California without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
Notice of Governing Law
21. . Regardless of any action the Company or its affiliates takes with respect to any or all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax or other tax-related withholding ("Tax-Related Items"), the Participant acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax-Related Items legally due by the Participant is, and remains, the Participant's responsibility and that the Company and/or its affiliates (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the RSU, including the grant of the RSU, the vesting of the RSU, the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to the RSU and the receipt of any dividends, if any; and (2) do not commit to structure the terms of the RSU or any aspect of the RSU to reduce or eliminate the Participant's liability for Tax-Related Items.
Withholding
Prior to the vesting of RSUs, the Participant agrees to pay or make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or its affiliates to satisfy all withholding obligations of the Company and/or its affiliates. In this regard, the Participant authorizes the Company and/or its affiliates to withhold all applicable Tax-Related Items legally payable by the Participant from his or her wages, within legal limits, or other cash compensation paid by the Company and/or its affiliates or from proceeds of the sale of the Shares. Alternatively, or in addition, if permissible under local law, the Company may (1) sell or arrange for the sale of Shares that the Participant acquire to meet the withholding obligation for Tax-Related Items, and/or (2) withhold in Shares, provided that the Company only withholds the amount of Shares necessary to satisfy the minimum withholding amount. The Participant acknowledges and agrees that should the amount of withholding for the Tax-Related Items to be satisfied by reducing the number of shares deliverable or by withholding from his or her sale's proceeds be in excess, the Company and/or his or her employer will refund the excess amount to him or her within a reasonable period and without any interest. Finally, the Participant shall pay to the Company and/or its affiliates any amount of Tax-Related Items that may be required to withhold as a result of participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to deliver the Shares if fail to comply with obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items as described in this section.
22. . In accepting the grant, Participant acknowledges that:
Nature of the Grant
a. the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, unless otherwise provided in the Plan and this letter;
b. the grant of the RSU is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future RSU grants, or benefits in lieu of RSUs, even if RSUs have been granted repeatedly in the past;
c. all decisions with respect to future RSUs, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;
d. participation in the Plan shall not create a right to further employment with the Participant's employer and shall not interfere with the ability of the Participant's employer to terminate the Participant's employment relationship at any time with or without cause;
e. the Participant is voluntarily participating in the Plan;
f. the RSU is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to the Company or to the Participant's employer, and which is outside the scope of the Participant's employment contract, if any;
g. the RSU is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service RSUs, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments;
h. in the event that the Participant's not an employee of the Company, the RSU will not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with the Company; and furthermore, the RSU will not be interpreted to form an employment contract with any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company;
i. the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
j. in consideration of the grant of the RSU, no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from termination of the RSU or diminution in value of the RSU or the Shares acquired through the RSU which results from termination of your employment by the Company or its affiliates (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and the Participant irrevocably releases the Company or its affiliates from any such claim that may arise; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by accepting the RSU, the Participant shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her entitlement to pursue such claim; and
k. notwithstanding any terms or conditions of the Plan to the contrary, in the event of involuntary termination of the Participant's employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), the Participant's right to receive RSUs and vest in RSUs under the Plan, if any, will terminate effective as of the date that the Participant is no longer actively employed; furthermore, in the event of involuntary termination of employment (whether or not in breach of local labor laws), the Participant's right to receive Shares pursuant to the RSUs or to exercise the Options after termination of employment, if any, will be measured by the date of termination of the Participant's active employment.
23. .
Data Privacy
By accepting the RSU the Participant hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Participant's personal data as described in this document by and among, as applicable, the Participant's employer and the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing participation in the Plan.
The Participant understands that the Company and the Participant's employer hold certain personal information about the Participant, including, but not limited to, his or her name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Options or any other entitlement to Shares of stock Awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant's favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data"). The Participant understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan that these recipients may be located in the Participant's country or elsewhere, and that the recipient's country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Participant's country. The Participant understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting the local human resources representative. The Participant authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Participant may elect to deposit any Shares of stock acquired through the RSU. The Participant understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage participation in the Plan. The Participant understands that he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, without cost, by contacting in writing the local human resources representative. The Participant understands, however, that refusing or withdrawing consent may affect his or her ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Participant understands that the Participant may contact the local human resources representative.


