FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20050706114647.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 3.02. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities.
     As previously disclosed, Juniper Networks, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Juniper Networks") entered into an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated April 25, 2005 (the "Merger Agreement"), between Juniper Networks, Peribit Networks, Inc., a California corporation ("Peribit"), Blanc Acquisition Corporation, a California corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Juniper Networks ("Sub"), and certain other parties, which provides for the merger of Sub with and into Peribit with Peribit to be the surviving corporation (the "Merger"). The Merger closed on July 1, 2005. In connection with the Merger, Juniper Networks will issue 11,336,476 shares of its common stock in exchange for the outstanding shares of capital stock held by Peribit stockholders.
     The shares of Juniper Networks common stock issued in the Merger are issued in reliance on an exemption from registration under Section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The availability of the Section 3(a)(10) exemption is based upon the determination by an appropriate governmental authority, after a public hearing at which all interested parties were invited to attend, that the terms and conditions of the issuance of Juniper Networks securities in the Merger are fair. Juniper Networks was issued a permit qualifying the issuance of Juniper Networks securities in the Merger pursuant to Section 25121 of the California Corporate Securities Law of 1968, as amended, following a "fairness hearing" that was conducted by the California Commissioner of Corporations on June 30, 2005.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On July 6, 2005, Juniper Networks issued a press release announcing the closing of the Merger with Peribit. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference herein.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) .
Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
: Kathy Durr Juniper Networks, Inc. 408-745-5058 kdurr@juniper.net
Media Contacts
Michelle Levine Juniper Networks, Inc. 408-936-2775 mlevine@juniper.net
Investor Relations Contact:
Juniper Networks, Inc. (Nasdaq: JNPR) today announced it has completed the acquisition of Peribit Networks, Inc., a leader in Wide Area Network (WAN) optimization technology. Juniper Networks announced a definitive agreement to acquire Peribit Networks on April 26, 2005.
SUNNYVALE, CA  July 6, 2005 
     Headquartered in Santa Clara and founded in early 2000, Peribit Networks develops WAN optimization appliances. Peribit Networks' platforms and software provide customers with increased WAN capacity, faster application performance, prioritized application delivery and system-wide visibility of network and application performance. Peribit Networks' solutions enable applications to run dramatically better over the WAN. Its products have been installed in over 900 enterprise customers worldwide.
Juniper Networks is the leader in enabling secure and assured communications over a single IP network. The company's purpose-built, high performance IP platforms enable customers to support many different services and applications at scale. Service providers, enterprises, governments and research and education institutions worldwide rely on Juniper Networks to deliver products for building networks that are tailored to the specific needs of their users, services and applications.
About Juniper Networks, Inc.
Juniper Networks' portfolio of proven networking and security solutions supports the complex scale, security and performance requirements of the world's most demanding networks. Additional information can be found at .
www.juniper.net
Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, NetScreen, NetScreen Technologies, the NetScreen logo, NetScreen-Global Pro, ScreenOS, and GigaScreen are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries.


