FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20050825145421.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On August 25, 2005, Juniper Networks, Inc. issued a press release, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference herein. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits 99.1 Press release issued by Juniper Networks, Inc. on August 25, 2005.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Kathy Durr Juniper Networks, Inc. 408-745-5058 Randi Paikoff Feigin Juniper Networks, Inc. 408-745-2371
Media Contact:
kdurr@juniper.net
Investor Relations:
randi@juniper.net
SUNNYVALE, Calif., August 25, 2005Juniper Networks, Inc. (Nasdaq: JNPR) today announced the appointment of Rob Sturgeon, vice president, Customer Service, to the position of executive vice president and general manager, Security Products Group. In this position, Sturgeon will drive the group's business strategy and product development roadmap as the company continues to extend its traffic processing franchise through the delivery of secure and assured networking solutions. Sturgeon succeeds Krishna Kittu' Kolluri, who will remain with Juniper through 2005 in support of the transition, after which he will pursue his passion as an investor, spearheading investments in technology start-ups between India and the US. Sturgeon's appointment is effective immediately.
"I'm very excited to welcome Rob to his new position," commented Scott Kriens, chairman and chief executive officer, Juniper Networks. "Rob has been an invaluable asset to Juniper over the past 4 years as the architect of a world class service organization. I'm confident that his strategic insight, customer knowledge, technical expertise and leadership skills will build on the success Kittu has helped to establish. Kittu is an inspirational, focused leader whose contributions to Juniper are reflected in the strength of the SPG team. I'm pleased to be able to announce a smooth transition, and look forward to continuing to work closely with Kittu."
Rob Sturgeon joined Juniper Networks in December 2001 as vice president, Customer Service, tasked with extending customer service and support to more than 500 service providers and carriers worldwide. Under his leadership, Juniper Networks' service business has grown approximately 300%, to almost $300M annualized, and support has been extended to Juniper Networks' growing portfolio of global enterprise customers and government organizations.
Prior to joining Juniper Networks, Mr. Sturgeon was vice president of Customer Service for Lucent Technologies where he was responsible for the field services business in the western half of the United States. He spent 18 years at AT&T and subsequently Lucent Technologies serving in roles supporting service provider customers in development, technical support, sales, operations, and program management. From 1995 to 2000, Mr. Sturgeon lived in Singapore and was the managing director of Program Management for Lucent Asia Pacific. He holds a BSEE degree from the University of Dayton and a Masters in Management from Northwestern University's Kellogg Graduate School of Management.
Juniper Networks is the leader in enabling secure and assured communications over a single IP network. The company's purpose-built, high performance IP platforms enable customers to support many different services and applications at scale. Service providers, enterprises, governments and research and education institutions worldwide rely on Juniper Networks to deliver products for building networks that are tailored to the specific needs of their users, services and applications. Juniper Networks' portfolio of proven networking and security solutions supports the complex scale, security and performance requirements of the world's most demanding networks. Additional information can be found at .
About Juniper Networks, Inc.
www.juniper.net
Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries.


