FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20060419161108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 19, 2006, Juniper Networks, Inc. ("Juniper Networks") issued a press release and held a conference call regarding its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference herein. The information in this report shall be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement heretofore or hereafter filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except to the extent that such information is superseded by information as of a subsequent date that is included in or incorporated by reference into such registration statement. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits Exhibit No. Description 99.1 Press Release issued by Juniper Networks on April 19, 2006
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, Juniper Networks uses non-GAAP measures of net income, net income per share and other non-GAAP line items in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expense and income items. These non-GAAP adjustments are provided to enhance the users overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future. Specifically, we believe the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain expense and income items that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results. In addition, since we have historically reported non-GAAP results to the investment community, we believe the inclusion of non-GAAP numbers provid es consistency in our financial reporting. Further, these non-GAAP results are one of the primary indicators management uses for budgeting and planning for future periods. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
SUNNYVALE, CA  April 19, 2006  Juniper Networks, Inc. (NASDAQ: JNPR) today reported its results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006.
Net revenues for the first quarter of 2006 were $566.7 million, compared with $449.1 million for the first quarter of 2005, an increase of 26 percent.
With the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R (FAS 123R) as of January 1, 2006, Juniper is reporting stock-based compensation expense in its generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) results for the first time. Net income on a GAAP basis for the first quarter of 2006 was $75.8 million or $0.13 per share, compared with a GAAP net income of $75.4 million or $0.13 per share for the first quarter of 2005. Non-GAAP net income for the first quarter of 2006 was $113.4 million or $0.19 per share, compared with non-GAAP net income of $91.9 million or $0.16 per share for the first quarter of 2005. The reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP net income is provided in a table immediately following the Non-GAAP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
For comparative purposes, net income excluding stock-based compensation for the first quarter of 2006 was $91.9 million or $0.15 per share, compared with a net income excluding stock-based compensation of $77.8 million or $0.13 per share for the first quarter of 2005. The reconciliation between net income excluding stock-based compensation and GAAP net income is provided in a table below the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Net cash flows from operations for the first quarter of 2006 were $83.0 million, compared to cash provided by operations of $134.4 million for the first quarter of 2005. For comparative purposes, non-GAAP cash flows from operations in the first quarter of 2006 were $139.1 million including the tax benefit from the exercise of employee stock options which were previously included in the operating cash flows. As a result of the adoption of FAS 123R, tax benefits from the exercise of employee stock options totaling $56.1 million are included in cash flows from financing activities. The reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP cash flows from operations is provided in a table immediately following the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
Capital expenditures and depreciation during the first quarter of 2006 were $18.2 million and $17.2 million, respectively.
"The first quarter reflected the continuing acceptance of Juniper's product portfolio with both our enterprise and service provider customers," commented Scott Kriens, chairman and CEO, Juniper Networks.  "We will intensify our focus on execution in order to capitalize in an environment where our capabilities and the market requirements are aligning more clearly than ever before."
Juniper's ongoing focus on serving the needs of its global service provider and enterprise customers was reflected in a number of key accomplishments this quarter.
Juniper Networks will host a conference call web cast today, April 19, 2006 at 1:45 p.m. (Pacific Time), to be broadcasted live over the Internet . The conference call will be archived on the Juniper Networks website until May 19, 2006. A replay will be accessible by telephone on April 19, 2006 after 4:00 p.m. Pacific Time through April 26, 2006 by dialing 800-633-8284 (or 402-977-9140), reservation number, 21288675. The replays will be available 24 hours/day, including weekends.
http://www.juniper.net/company/investor/conferencecall.html
About Juniper Networks, Inc.
Juniper Networks is the leader in enabling secure and assured communications over a single IP network. The company's purpose-built, high performance IP platforms enable customers to support many different services and applications at scale. Service providers, enterprises, governments and research and education institutions worldwide rely on Juniper Networks to deliver products for building networks that are tailored to the specific needs of their users, services and applications. Juniper Networks' portfolio of proven networking and security solutions supports the complex scale, security and performance requirements of the world's most demanding networks. Additional information can be found at
www.juniper.net.
Juniper Networks is a registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries.
This release includes non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data and other non-GAAP line items from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, including operating expenses, other income and expenses, income before income taxes, provision for income taxes and net income and cash flows from operations. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. These non-GAAP adjustments are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our operating performance and our prospects for the future. Juniper Networks believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measures, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, provides useful information to both management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations, in particular by excluding certain expense and income items that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results. In addition, since we have historically reported non-GAAP results to the investment community, we believe the inclusion of non-GAAP numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting For its internal budgeting and planning, Juniper Networks' management uses financial statements that do not include employee stock-based compensation; amortization of purchased intangible assets; in-process research and development; restructuring, impairment and related charges; integration costs; patent cross licensing expense; gain (loss) on investments; and the income tax effects of the foregoing, as applicable. Juniper Networks' management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in determining objectives for compensation programs or reviewing the financial results of Juniper Networks.


