FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20060810161751.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The disclosure set forth in Item 4.02 below is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 4.02 Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review.
(a) As previously announced by Juniper Networks, Inc. (the "Company"), the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has been conducting an investigation into the Companys stock option practices and has reached a preliminary conclusion that the actual measurement dates for financial accounting purposes of certain stock option grants issued in the past differ from the recorded grant dates of such awards. Although the investigation is ongoing, upon the recommendation of management and the Audit Committee, the Juniper Board of Directors has concluded that the Company will need to restate historical financial statements to record additional non-cash charges for stock-based compensation expense related to past option grants. The Company has not determined the amount of such charges, the resulting tax and accounting impact, or which specific periods require restatement. Consequently, on August 9, 2006, upon the recommendation of management and the Audit Committee, the Board of Directors con cluded that financial statements and all earnings press releases and similar communications issued by the Company relating to periods beginning on or after January 1, 2003 should no longer be relied upon, including the Companys financial statements for fiscal years 2003, 2004 and 2005, the interim periods contained therein, and the quarter ended March 31, 2006. The Companys management and the Audit Committee have discussed this matter with Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys independent registered public accounting firm. The Company issued a press release on August 10, 2006, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) 99.1 Press Release issued by Juniper Networks, Inc. on August 10, 2006
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 99.1
Investor Relations Contact: Public Relations Contact:
Sunnyvale, CaliforniaAugust 10, 2006As previously announced by Juniper Networks, Inc. (Nasdaq: JNPR), the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has been conducting an investigation into the Company's stock option practices and has reached a preliminary conclusion that the actual measurement dates for financial accounting purposes of certain stock option grants issued in the past differ from the recorded grant dates of such awards.
Although the investigation is ongoing, upon the recommendation of management and the Audit Committee, the Juniper Board of Directors has concluded that the Company will need to restate historical financial statements to record additional non-cash charges for stock-based compensation expense related to past option grants. The Company has not determined the amount of such charges, the resulting tax and accounting impact, or which specific periods require restatement. Accordingly, the Company today filed a Form 8-K with the SEC stating that the financial statements and all earnings press releases and similar communications issued by the Company relating to periods beginning on or after January 1, 2003 should therefore not be relied upon.
In addition, the Company today filed a Notification of Late Filing on Form 12b-25 with the SEC indicating that the Company missed the prescribed deadline for its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending June 30, 2006. As a result of this delinquency, the Company expects to receive a notice of delisting from Nasdaq in accordance with Nasdaq's standard process.
Juniper is committed to resolving these issues as expeditiously as possible and to file its Form 10-Q and restated financial statements as soon as practicable following completion of the independent investigation.
About Juniper Networks, Inc.
Juniper Networks is the leader in enabling secure and assured communications over a single IP network. The company's purpose-built, high performance IP platforms enable customers to support many different services and applications at scale. Service providers, enterprises, governments and research and education institutions worldwide rely on Juniper Networks to deliver products for building networks that are tailored to the specific needs of their users, services and applications. Juniper Networks' portfolio of proven networking and security solutions supports the complex scale, security and performance requirements of the world's most demanding networks. Additional information can be found at .
www.juniper.net
Juniper Networks and the Juniper Networks logo are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries.


