FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20060524132443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
At the annual meeting of stockholders of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the "Company") held on May 18, 2006, the Company's stockholders approved the Juniper Networks, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2006 Plan"). A copy of the 2006 Plan and the forms of: (1) Stock Option Agreement, (2) Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement and (3) Notice of Grant and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, as approved by the Company's Board of Directors for use under the 2006 Plan, are attached to this Report as exhibits. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the 2006 Plan, each of the non-employee members of the Companys Board of Directors was automatically granted an option to purchase 20,000 shares of the Companys common stock on the date of the Companys annual meeting of stockholders. The exercise price of each such option was equal to the closing price of the Company's common stock on May 18, 2006, or $16.10 per share. Each such option will vest in twelve equal installments on a monthly b asis beginning on June 18, 2006, so long as the optionee continues to serve on the Board of Directors.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibit No. Description 10.1 Juniper Networks, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan 10.2 Form of Stock Option Agreement for the Juniper Networks, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan 10.3 Form of Non-Employee Director Stock Option Agreement for the Juniper Networks, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan 10.4 Form of Notice of Grant and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for the Juniper Networks, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 10.1
1. . The purposes of this Equity Incentive Plan are to attract and retain the best available personnel for positions of substantial responsibility, to provide additional incentive to Service Providers and Outside Directors and to promote the success of the Company's business.
Purposes of the Plan
Awards to Service Providers granted hereunder may be Incentive Stock Options, Nonstatutory Stock Options, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Deferred Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents, at the discretion of the Administrator and as reflected in the terms of the written option agreement. This Equity Incentive Plan also provides for the automatic, non-discretionary award of Nonstatutory Stock Options to Outside Directors.
2. . As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
(a) "" shall mean the Board or any of its Committees as shall be administering the Plan, in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.
Administrator
(b) "" shall mean the Company's or a business unit's net sales for the Fiscal Year, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Annual Revenue
(c) "" shall mean the legal requirements relating to the administration of equity incentive plans under California corporate and securities laws and the Code.
Applicable Laws
(d) "" shall mean, individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of Incentive Stock Options, Nonstatutory Stock Options, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Deferred Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents.
Award
(e) "" shall mean the written or electronic agreement setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to each Award granted under the Plan. The Award Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Award Agreement
(f) "" shall mean the Common Stock subject to an Award.
Awarded Stock
(g) "" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(h) "" shall mean the Company's level of cash and cash equivalents.
Cash Position
(i) "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
(j) "" shall mean the Common Stock of the Company.
Common Stock
(k) "" shall mean the Committee appointed by the Board of Directors or a sub-committee appointed by the Board's designated committee in accordance with Section 4(a) of the Plan, if one is appointed.
Committee
(l) "" shall mean Juniper Networks, Inc.
Company
(m) "" shall mean any person, including an advisor, engaged by the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary to render services and who is compensated for such services; provided, however, that the term "Consultant" shall not include Outside Directors, unless such Outside Directors are compensated for services to the Company other than through payment of director's fees and Option grants under Section 11 hereof.
Consultant
(n) "" means that the Director relationship is not interrupted or terminated.
Continuous Status as a Director
(o) "" means a deferred stock unit Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 16.
Deferred Stock Unit
(p) "" shall mean a member of the Board.
Director
(q) "" means total and permanent disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
Disability
(r) "" shall mean a credit, payable in cash, made at the discretion of the Administrator, to the account of a Participant in an amount equal to the cash dividends paid on one Share for each Share represented by an Award held by such Participant. Dividend Equivalents may be subject to the same vesting restrictions as the related Shares subject to an Award, at the discretion of the Administrator.
Dividend Equivalent
(s) "" shall mean as to any Fiscal Year, the Company's or a business unit's Net Income, divided by a weighted average number of common shares outstanding and dilutive common equivalent shares deemed outstanding, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Earnings Per Share
(t) "" shall mean any person, including Officers and Directors, employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. An Employee shall not cease to be an Employee in the case of (i) any leave of absence approved by the Company or (ii) transfers between locations of the Company or between the Company, its Parent, any Subsidiary, or any successor. For purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no such leave may exceed ninety days, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave is guaranteed by statute or contract. If reemployment upon expiration of a leave of absence approved by the Company is not so guaranteed, then three (3) months following the 91 day of such leave any Incentive Stock Option held by the Participant shall cease to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and shall be treated for tax purposes as a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
Employee
st
(u) "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
(v) "" shall mean, as of any date, the value of Common Stock determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
(i) If the Common Stock is listed on a stock exchange, the fair market value per Share shall be the closing price on such exchange, as reported in the Wall Street Journal on the date of determination or, if the date of determination is not a trading day, the immediately preceding trading day;
(ii) If there is a public market for the Common Stock, the fair market value per Share shall be the mean of the bid and asked prices, or closing price in the event quotations for the Common Stock are reported on the National Market System, of the Common Stock on the date of determination, as reported in the Wall Street Journal (or, if not so reported, as otherwise reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation (NASDAQ) System); or
(iii) In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the Administrator.
(w) "" shall mean a fiscal year of the Company.
Fiscal Year
(x) "" shall mean an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
Incentive Stock Option
(y) "" shall mean as to any Fiscal Year, the income after taxes of the Company for the Fiscal Year determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Net Income
(z) "" shall mean an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonstatutory Stock Option
(aa) "" shall mean a person who is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Officer
(bb) "" shall mean the Company's or a business unit's sum of Net Income plus depreciation and amortization less capital expenditures plus changes in working capital comprised of accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses, product warranty, advance payments from customers and long-term accrued expenses, determined in accordance with generally acceptable accounting principles.
Operating Cash Flow
(cc) "" shall mean the Company's or a business unit's income from operations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Operating Income
(ff) "" means a Director who is not an Employee or Consultant.
Outside Director
(gg) "" shall mean a "parent corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent
(hh) "" shall mean an Employee or Consultant who receives an Award.
Participant
(ii) "" shall mean the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the Committee (in its discretion) to be applicable to a Participant with respect to an Award. As determined by the Committee, the Performance Goals applicable to an Award may provide for a targeted level or levels of achievement using one or more of the following measures: (a) Annual Revenue, (b) Cash Position, (c) Earnings Per Share, (d) Net Income, (e) Operating Cash Flow, (f) Operating Income, (g) Return on Assets, (h) Return on Equity, (i) Return on Sales, and (j) Total Stockholder Return. The Performance Goals may differ from Participant to Participant and from Award to Award. The Administrator shall appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under a Performance Goal to exclude (i) any extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations appearing in the Company's annual report to shareholders for the applicable year, or (ii) the effect of any changes in accounting principles affecting the Company's or a business units' reported results.
Performance Goals
(jj) "" shall mean a performance share Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 14.
Performance Share
(kk) "" means a performance unit Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 15.
Performance Unit
(ll) "" shall mean this 1986 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended.
Plan
(mm) "" shall mean a restricted stock Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 11.
Restricted Stock
(nn) "" shall mean a bookkeeping entry representing an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of one Share, granted pursuant to Section 13. Each Restricted Stock Unit represents an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.
Restricted Stock Unit
(oo) "" shall mean the percentage equal to the Company's or a business unit's Operating Income before incentive compensation, divided by average net Company or business unit, as applicable, assets, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Return on Assets
(pp) "" shall mean the percentage equal to the Company's Net Income divided by average shareholder's equity, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Return on Equity
(qq) "" shall mean the percentage equal to the Company's or a business unit's Operating Income before incentive compensation, divided by the Company's or the business unit's, as applicable, revenue, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Return on Sales
(rr) "" shall mean Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or any successor to Rule 16b-3, as in effect when discretion is being exercised with respect to the Plan.
Rule 16b-3
(uu) "" shall mean a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 21 of the Plan.
Share
(vv) "" or "SAR" shall mean a stock appreciation right granted pursuant to Section 9 below.
Stock Appreciation Right
(ww) "" shall mean a "subsidiary corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary
(xx) "" shall mean the total return (change in share price plus reinvestment of any dividends) of a share of the Company's common stock.
Total Stockholder Return
3. . Subject to the provisions of Section 21 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of shares which may be optioned and sold under the Plan is 64,500,000 shares of Common Stock plus any Shares subject to any options under the Company's 2000 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan and 1996 Stock Incentive Plan that are outstanding on the date this Plan becomes effective and that subsequently expire unexercisedup to a maximum of an additional 75,000,000 SharesAll of the shares issuable under the Plan may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock.
Stock Subject to the Plan
,
.
Any Shares subject to Options or SARs shall be counted against the numerical limits of this Section 3 as one Share for every Share subject thereto. Any Shares subject to Performance Shares, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units with a per share or unit purchase price lower than 100% of Fair Market Value on the date of grant shall be counted against the numerical limits of this Section 3 as two and one-tenth Shares for every one Share subject thereto. To the extent that a Share that was subject to an Award that counted as two and one-tenth Shares against the Plan reserve pursuant to the preceding sentence is recycled back into the Plan under the next paragraph of this Section 3, the Plan shall be credited with two and one-tenth Shares.
If an Award expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised in full, or, with respect to Restricted Stock, Performance Shares or Restricted Stock Units, is forfeited to or repurchased by the Company at its original purchase price due to such Award failing to vest, the unpurchased Shares (or for Awards other than Options and SARs, the forfeited or repurchased shares) which were subject thereto shall become available for future grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated). With respect to SARs, when an SAR is exercised, the shares subject to a SAR grant agreement shall be counted against the numerical limits of Section 3 above, as one share for every share subject thereto, regardless of the number of shares used to settle the SAR upon exercise (i.e., shares withheld to satisfy the exercise price of an SAR shall not remain available for issuance under the Plan). Shares that have actually been issued under the Plan under any Award shall not be returned to the Plan and shall not become available for future distribution under the Plan; provided, however, that if Shares of Restricted Stock, Performance Shares or Restricted Stock Units are repurchased by the Company at their original purchase price or are forfeited to the Company due to such Awards failing to vest, such Shares shall become available for future grant under the Plan. Shares used to pay the exercise price of an Option shall not become available for future grant or sale under the Plan. Shares used to satisfy tax withholding obligations shall not become available for future grant or sale under the Plan. To the extent an Award under the Plan is paid out in cash rather than stock, such cash payment shall not reduce the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan. Any payout of Dividend Equivalents or Performance Units, because they are payable only in cash, shall not reduce the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan. Conversely, any forfeiture of Dividend Equivalents or Performance Units shall not increase the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan.
4. .
Administration of the Plan
(a) .
Procedure
(i) . If permitted by Applicable Laws, the Plan may be administered by different bodies with respect to Directors, Officers who are not Directors, and Employees who are neither Directors nor Officers.
Multiple Administrative Bodies
(ii) . To the extent that the Administrator determines it to be desirable to qualify Awards granted hereunder as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Plan shall be administered by a Committee consisting solely of two or more "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Section 162(m)
(iii) . With respect to Option grants made to Employees who are also Officers subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board, if the Board may administer the Plan in compliance with Rule 16b-3, or (B) a committee designated by the Board to administer the Plan, which committee shall be constituted to comply with Rule 16b-3. Once appointed, such Committee shall continue to serve in its designated capacity until otherwise directed by the Board. From time to time the Board may increase the size of the Committee and appoint additional members, remove members (with or without cause) and substitute new members, fill vacancies (however caused), and remove all members of the Committee and thereafter directly administer the Plan, all to the extent permitted by Rule 16b-3.
Administration With Respect to Officers Subject to Section 16(b)
(iv) . With respect to Award grants made to Employees or Consultants who are not Officers of the Company, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board, (B) a committee designated by the Board, or (C) a sub-committee designated by the designated committee, which committee or sub-committee shall be constituted to satisfy Applicable Laws. Once appointed, such Committee shall serve in its designated capacity until otherwise directed by the Board. The Board may increase the size of the Committee and appoint additional members, remove members (with or without cause) and substitute new members, fill vacancies (however caused), and remove all members of the Committee and thereafter directly administer the Plan, all to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws.
Administration With Respect to Other Persons
(v) . Automatic Grants to Outside Directors shall be pursuant to a non-discretionary formula as set forth in Section 11 hereof and therefore shall not be subject to any discretionary administration.
Administration With Respect to Automatic Grants to Outside Directors
(b) . Subject to the provisions of the Plan (including the non-discretionary automatic grant to Outside Director provisions of Section 11), and in the case of a Committee, subject to the specific duties delegated by the Board to such Committee, the Administrator shall have the authority, in its discretion:
Powers of the Administrator
(i) to determine the Fair Market Value in accordance with Section 2(v) of the Plan;
(ii) to select the Service Providers to whom Awards may be granted hereunder;
(iii) to determine whether and to what extent Awards are granted hereunder;
(iv) to determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be covered by each Award granted hereunder;
(v) to approve forms of agreement for use under the Plan;
(vi) to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, of any Award granted hereunder. Such terms and conditions include, but are not limited to, the exercise price, the time or times when Awards vest or may be exercised (which may be based on performance criteria), any vesting acceleration or waiver of forfeiture restrictions (subject to compliance with applicable laws, including Code Section 409A), and any restriction or limitation regarding any Award or the shares of Common Stock relating thereto, based in each case on such factors as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine; provided, however, that with respect to Restricted Stock, Performance Shares or Restricted Stock Units or Deferred Stock Units vesting solely based on continuing as a Service Provider, they will vest in full no earlier (except if accelerated pursuant to Section 21 hereof) than the three (3) year anniversary of the grant date; provided, further, that if vesting is not solely based on continuing as a Service Provider, they will vest in full no earlier (except if accelerated pursuant to Section 21 hereof) than the one (1) year anniversary of the grant date;
(vii) to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and Awards granted pursuant to the Plan;
(viii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan;
(ix) to modify or amend each Award (subject to Section 7 and Section 24(c) of the Plan);
(x) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effect the grant of an Award previously granted by the Administrator;
(xi) to determine the terms and restrictions applicable to Awards;
(xii) to determine whether Awards will be adjusted for Dividend Equivalents and whether such Dividend Equivalents shall be subject to vesting; and
(xiii) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for administering the Plan.
(c) . All decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Administrator shall be final and binding on all Participants and any other holders of any Awards granted under the Plan.
Effect of Administrator's Decision
5. . Awards may be granted only to Service Providers. Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees. A Service Provider who has been granted an Award may, if he or she is otherwise eligible, be granted an additional Award or Awards. Outside Directors may only be granted Awards as specified in Section 11 hereof.
Eligibility
6. .
Code Section 162(m) Provisions
(a) . Subject to Section 7 below, no Participant shall be granted, in any Fiscal Year, Options and Stock Appreciation Rights to purchase more than 2,000,000 Shares; provided, however, that such limit shall be 4,000,000 Shares in the Participant's first Fiscal Year of Company service.
Option and SAR Annual Share Limit
(b) . No Participant shall be granted, in any Fiscal Year, more than 1,000,000 Shares in the aggregate of the following: (i) Restricted Stock, (ii) Performance Shares, or (iii) Restricted Stock Units; provided, however, that such limit shall be 2,000,000 Shares in the Participant's first Fiscal Year of Company service.
Restricted Stock, Performance Share and Restricted Stock Unit Annual Limit
(c) . No Participant shall receive Performance Units, in any Fiscal Year, having an initial value greater than $2,000,000, provided, however, that such limit shall be $4,000,000 in the Participant's first Fiscal Year of Company service.
Performance Units Annual Limit
(d) . For purposes of qualifying grants of Restricted Stock, Performance Shares, Performance Units or Restricted Stock Units as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator, in its discretion, may set restrictions based upon the achievement of Performance Goals. The Performance Goals shall be set by the Administrator on or before the latest date permissible to enable the Restricted Stock, Performance Shares, Performance Units or Restricted Stock Units to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. In granting Restricted Stock, Performance Shares, Performance Units or Restricted Stock Units which are intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator shall follow any procedures determined by it from time to time to be necessary or appropriate to ensure qualification of the Award under Section 162(m) of the Code (e.g., in determining the Performance Goals).
Section 162(m) Performance Restrictions
(e) . The numerical limitations in Sections 6(a) and (b) shall be adjusted proportionately in connection with any change in the Company's capitalization as described in Section 16(a).
Changes in Capitalization
7. . The exercise price for an Option or SAR may not be reduced without the consent of the Company's stockholders. This shall include, without limitation, a repricing of the Option or SAR as well as an Option or SAR exchange program whereby the Participant agrees to cancel an existing Option in exchange for an Option, SAR or other Award. If an Option or SAR is cancelled in the same Fiscal Year in which it was granted (other than in connection with a transaction described in Section 14), the cancelled Option or SAR as well as any replacement Option or SAR will be counted against the limits set forth in section 6(a) above.  Moreover, if the exercise price of an Option or SAR is reduced, the transaction will be treated as a cancellation of the Option or SAR and the grant of a new Option or SAR.
No Repricing
8. .
Stock Options
(a) . Each Option shall be designated in the Award Agreement as either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option. However, notwithstanding such designations, to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of Shares subject to a Participant's incentive stock options granted by the Company, any Parent or Subsidiary, that become exercisable for the first time during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, such excess Options shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options. For purposes of this Section 8(a), incentive stock options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market Value of the Shares shall be determined as of the time of grant.
Type of Option
(b) . The term of each Option shall be stated in the Notice of Grant; provided, however, that the term shall be seven (7) years from the date of grant or such shorter term as may be provided in the Notice of Grant. Moreover, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Participant who, at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the term of the Incentive Stock Option shall be five (5) years from the date of grant or such shorter term as may be provided in the Notice of Grant.
Term of Option
(c) .
Exercise Price and Consideration
(i) The per Share exercise price for the Shares to be issued pursuant to exercise of an Option shall be such price as is determined by the Administrator, but shall be subject to the following:
(A) In the case of an Incentive Stock Option
(1) granted to an Employee who, at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 110% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.
(2) granted to any Employee, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.
(B) In the case of a Nonstatutory Stock Option, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.
(ii) Except with respect to automatic stock option grants to Outside Directors,
the consideration to be paid for the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an Option, including the method of payment, shall be determined by the Administrator and may consist entirely of cash; check;; delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with such other documentation as the Committee and the broker, if applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the option and delivery to the Company of the sale proceeds required; or any combination of such methods of payment, or such other consideration and method of payment for the issuance of Shares to the extent permitted under Applicable Law.
9. 
Stock Appreciation Rights.
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Administrator, in its sole discretion. Subject to Section 6(a) hereof, the Administrator shall have complete discretion to determine the number of SARs granted to any Participant.
Grant of SARs
(b) . The per share exercise price for the Shares to be issued pursuant to exercise of an SAR shall be determined by the Administrator and shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per share on the date of grant. Otherwise, subject to Section 6(a) of the Plan, the Administrator, subject to the provisions of the Plan, shall have complete discretion to determine the terms and conditions of SARs granted under the Plan; provided, however, that no SAR may have a term of more than seven(=7) years from the date of grant.
Exercise Price and other Terms
(c) . Upon exercise of a SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying:
Payment of SAR Amount
(i) The difference between the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise over the exercise price; times
(ii) The number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised.
(d) . At the discretion of the Administrator, but only as specified in the Award Agreement, payment for a SAR may be in cash, Shares or a combination thereof. If the Award Agreement is silent as to the form of payment, payment of the SAR may only be in Shares.
Payment upon Exercise of SAR
(e) . Each SAR grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the exercise price, the term of the SAR, the conditions of exercise, whether it may be settled in cash, Shares or a combination thereof, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
SAR Agreement
(f) . A SAR granted under the Plan shall expire upon the date determined by the Administrator, in its sole discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement.
Expiration of SARs
10. .
Exercise of Option or SAR
(a) . Any Option or SAR granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator, including performance criteria with respect to the Company and/or the Participant, and as shall be permissible under the terms of the Plan.
Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Shareholder
An Option or SAR may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
An Option or SAR shall be deemed to be exercised when written notice of such exercise has been given to the Company in accordance with the terms of the Option or SAR by the person entitled to exercise the Option or SAR and, with respect to Options only, full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised has been received by the Company. With respect to Options only, full payment may, as authorized by the Administrator, consist of any consideration and method of payment allowable under Section 8(d) of the Plan. Until the issuance (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) of the stock certificate evidencing such Shares, no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a shareholder shall exist with respect to the Optioned Stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 21 of the Plan.
(b) . If an Employee or Consultant ceases to serve as a Service Provider, he or she may, but only within 90 days (or such other period of time as is determined by the Administrator and as set forth in the Option or SAR Agreement) after the date he or she ceases to be a Service Provider, exercise his or her Option or SAR to the extent that he or she was entitled to exercise it at the date of such termination. To the extent that he or she was not entitled to exercise the Option or SAR at the date of such termination, or if he or she does not exercise such Option or SAR (which he or she was entitled to exercise) within the time specified herein, the Option or SAR shall terminate.
Termination of Status as a Service Provider
(c) . If a Participant ceases to be a Service Provider as a result of the Participant's Disability, the Participant may exercise his or her Option or SAR within such period of time as is specified in the Award Agreement to the extent the Option or SAR is vested on the date of termination (but in no event later than the expiration of the term of such Option or SAR as set forth in the Award Agreement). In the absence of a specified time in the Award Agreement, the Option or SAR shall remain exercisable for twelve (12) months following the Participant's termination. If, on the date of termination, the Participant is not vested as to his or her entire Option or SAR, the Shares covered by the unvested portion of the Option or SAR shall revert to the Plan. If, after termination, the Participant does not exercise his or her Option or SAR within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option or SAR shall revert to the Plan.
Disability
(d) . If a Participant dies while a Service Provider, the Option or SAR may be exercised following the Participant's death within such period of time as is specified in the Award Agreement (but in no event may the option be exercised later than the expiration of the term set forth in the Award Agreement), by the Participant's designated beneficiary, provided such beneficiary has been designated prior to Participant's death in a form acceptable to the Administrator. If no such beneficiary has been designated by the Participant, then such Option or SAR may be exercised by the personal representative of the Participant's estate or by the person(s) to whom the Option or SAR is transferred pursuant to the Participant's will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution. In the absence of a specified time in the Award Agreement, the Option or SAR shall remain exercisable for twelve (12) months following Participant's death. If the Option or SAR is not so exercised within the time specified herein, the Option or SAR shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option or SAR shall revert to the Plan.
Death of Participant
11. .
Automatic Stock Option Grants to Outside Directors
(a) . All grants of Options to Outside Directors under this Plan shall be automatic and non-discretionary and shall be made strictly in accordance with the following provisions:
Procedure for Grants
(i) No person shall have any discretion to select which Outside Directors shall be granted Options or to determine the number of Shares to be covered by Options granted to Outside Directors.
(ii) Each Outside Director shall be automatically granted an Option to purchase 50,000 Shares (the "First Option") upon the date on which such person first becomes a Director, whether through election by the stockholders of the Company or appointment by the Board of Directors to fill a vacancy.
(iii) At each of the Company's annual stockholder meetings (A) each Outside Director who was an Outside Director on the date of the prior year's annual stockholder meeting shall be automatically granted an Option to purchase 20,000 Shares, and (B) each Outside Director who was not an Outside Director on the date of the prior year's annual stockholder meeting shall receive an option covering the number of Shares determined by multiplying 20,000 Shares by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days since the Outside Director received their First Option, and the denominator of which is 365, rounded down to the nearest whole Share (the "Annual Option").
(iv) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (ii) and (iii) hereof, in the event that an automatic grant hereunder would cause the number of Shares subject to outstanding Options plus the number of Shares previously purchased upon exercise of Options to exceed the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan, then each such automatic grant shall be for that number of Shares determined by dividing the total number of Shares remaining available for grant by the number of Outside Directors on the automatic grant date. Any further grants shall then be deferred until such time, if any, as additional Shares become available for grant under the Plan.
(v) The terms of an Option granted hereunder shall be as follows:
(A) the term of the Option shall be seven (7) years.
(B) the Option shall be exercisable only while the Outside Director remains a Director of the Company, except as set forth in subsection (c) hereof.
(C) the exercise price per Share shall be 100% of the Fair Market Value on the date of grant of the Option.
(D) the First Option shall vest and become exercisable as to 1/36 of the covered Shares each month following the grant date, with the last 1/36 vesting on the day prior to the Company's annual stockholder meeting in the third calendar year following the date of grant, so as to become 100% vested on the approximately three-year anniversary of the grant date, subject to the Participant maintaining Continuous Status as a Director on each vesting date.
th
th
(E) the Annual Option shall vest and become exercisable at to 1/12 of the covered Shares each month following the grant date, with the last 1/12 vesting on the day prior to the Company's annual stockholder meeting in the calendar year following the date of grant, so as to become 100% vested on the approximately one year anniversary of the grant date, subject to the Participant maintaining Continuous Status as a Director on each vesting date.
th
th
(b) . The consideration to be paid for the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an automatic Outside Director Option shall consist entirely of cash, check, and to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws, delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with such other documentation as the Administrator and the broker, if applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and delivery to the Company of the sale proceeds required to pay the exercise price, or any combination of such methods of payment.
Consideration for Exercising Outside Director Stock Options
(c) . If an Outside Director ceases to serve as a Director, (including pursuant to his or her death or Disability) he or she may, but only within within 90 daysafter the date he or she ceases to be a Director of the Company, exercise his or her Option to the extent that he or she was entitled to exercise it at the date of such termination. To the extent that he or she was not entitled to exercise an Option at the date of such termination, or if he or she does not exercise such Option (which he was entitled to exercise) within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.
Post-Directorship Exercisability
,
12. .
Restricted Stock
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan (including the minimum vesting periods specified in Section 4(b)(vi)), Restricted Stock may be granted to Participants at any time as shall be determined by the Administrator, in its sole discretion. Subject to Section 6(b) hereof, the Administrator shall have complete discretion to determine (i) the number of Shares subject to a Restricted Stock award granted to any Participant, and (ii) the conditions that must be satisfied, which typically will be based principally or solely on continued provision of services but may include a performance-based component, upon which is conditioned the grant, vesting or issuance of Restricted Stock.
Grant of Restricted Stock
(b) . The Administrator, subject to the provisions of the Plan, shall have complete discretion to determine the terms and conditions of Restricted Stock granted under the Plan; provided that Restricted Stock may only be issued in the form of Shares. Restricted Stock grants shall be subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions determined by the Administrator at the time the stock or the restricted stock unit is awarded. The Administrator may require the recipient to sign a Restricted Stock Award agreement as a condition of the award. Any certificates representing the Shares of stock awarded shall bear such legends as shall be determined by the Administrator.
Other Terms
(c) . Each Restricted Stock grant shall be evidenced by an agreement that shall specify the purchase price (if any) and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine; provided; however, that if the Restricted Stock grant has a purchase price, such purchase price must be paid no more than seven (7) years following the date of grant.
Restricted Stock Award Agreement
13. .
Restricted Stock Units
(a) . Restricted Stock Units may be granted at any time and from time to time as determined by the Administrator. After the Administrator determines that it will grant Restricted Stock Units under the Plan, it shall advise the Participant in writing or electronically of the terms, conditions, and restrictions related to the grant, including the number of Restricted Stock Units and the form of payout, which, subject to Section 6(b) hereof, may be left to the discretion of the Administrator.
Grant
(b) . The Administrator shall set vesting criteria in its discretion, which, depending on the extent to which the criteria are met, will determine the number of Restricted Stock Units that will be paid out to the Participant. The Administrator may set vesting criteria based upon the achievement of Company-wide, business unit, or individual goals (including, but not limited to, continued employment), or any other basis determined by the Administrator in its discretion.
Vesting Criteria and Other Terms
(c) . Upon meeting the applicable vesting criteria, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a payout as specified in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time after the grant of Restricted Stock Units, the Administrator, in its sole discretion, may reduce or waive any vesting criteria that must be met to receive a payout.
Earning Restricted Stock Units
(d) . Payment of earned Restricted Stock Units shall be made as soon as practicable after the date(s) set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, but only as specified in the Award Agreement, may pay earned Restricted Stock Units in cash, Shares, or a combination thereof. If the Award Agreement is silent as to the form of payment, payment of the Restricted Stock Units may only be in Shares.
Form and Timing of Payment
(e) . On the date set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, all unearned Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited to the Company.
Cancellation
14. .
Performance Shares
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Performance Shares may be granted to Participants at any time as shall be determined by the Administrator, in its sole discretion. Subject to Section 6(b) hereof, the Administrator shall have complete discretion to determine (i) the number of Shares subject to a Performance Share award granted to any Participant, and (ii) the conditions that must be satisfied, which typically will be based principally or solely on achievement of performance milestones but may include a service-based component, upon which is conditioned the grant or vesting of Performance Shares. Performance Shares shall be granted in the form of units to acquire Shares. Each such unit shall be the equivalent of one Share for purposes of determining the number of Shares subject to an Award. Until the Shares are issued, no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to the units to acquire Shares.
Grant of Performance Shares
(b) . The Administrator, subject to the provisions of the Plan, shall have complete discretion to determine the terms and conditions of Performance Shares granted under the Plan. Performance Share grants shall be subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions determined by the Administrator at the time the stock is awarded, which may include such performance-based milestones as are determined appropriate by the Administrator. The Administrator may require the recipient to sign a Performance Shares Award Agreement as a condition of the award. Any certificates representing the Shares of stock awarded shall bear such legends as shall be determined by the Administrator.
Other Terms
(c) . Each Performance Share grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Performance Share Award Agreement
15. .
Performance Units
(a) . Performance Units are similar to Performance Shares, except that they shall be settled in a cash equivalent to the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares, determined as of the vesting date. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Performance Units may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Administrator, in its sole discretion. The Administrator shall have complete discretion to determine the conditions that must be satisfied, which typically will be based principally or solely on achievement of performance milestones but may include a service-based component, upon which is conditioned the grant or vesting of Performance Units. Performance Units shall be granted in the form of units to acquire Shares. Each such unit shall be the cash equivalent of one Share of Common Stock. No right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to Performance Units or the cash payable thereunder.
Grant of Performance Units
(b) . Subject to Section 6(c) hereof, the Administrator will have complete discretion in determining the number of Performance Units granted to any Participant.
Number of Performance Units
(c) . The Administrator, subject to the provisions of the Plan, shall have complete discretion to determine the terms and conditions of Performance Units granted under the Plan. Performance Unit grants shall be subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions determined by the Administrator at the time the grant is awarded, which may include such performance-based milestones as are determined appropriate by the Administrator. The Administrator may require the recipient to sign a Performance Unit agreement as a condition of the award. Any certificates representing the units awarded shall bear such legends as shall be determined by the Administrator.
Other Terms
(d) . Each Performance Unit grant shall be evidenced by an agreement that shall specify such terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Performance Unit Award Agreement
16. .
Deferred Stock Units
(a) . Deferred Stock Units shall consist of a Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share or Performance Unit Award that the Administrator, in its sole discretion permits to be paid out in installments or on a deferred basis, in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Administrator. Deferred Stock Units shall remain subject to the claims of the Company's general creditors until distributed to the Participant.
Description
(b) . Deferred Stock Units shall be subject to the annual 162(m) limits applicable to the underlying Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share or Performance Unit Award as set forth in Section 6 hereof.
162(m) Limits
. If as a condition to be granted an unpaid leave of absence by the Company, a Participant agrees that vesting shall be suspended during all or a portion of such leave of absence, (except as otherwise required by Applicable Laws) vesting of Awards granted hereunder shall cease during such agreed upon portion of the unpaid leave of absence and shall only recommence upon return to active service.
17. 
Leaves of Absence
18. . Unless otherwise required by Applicable Laws, if as a condition to being permitted to work on a less than full-time basis, the Participant agrees that any service-based vesting of Awards granted hereunder shall be extended on a proportionate basis in connection with such transition to a less than a full-time basis, vesting shall be adjusted in accordance with such agreement. Such vesting shall be proportionately re-adjusted prospectively in the event that the Employee subsequently becomes regularly scheduled to work additional hours of service.
Part-Time Service
19. . Except as determined otherwise by the Administrator in its sole discretion (but never a transfer in exchange for value), Awards may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the Participant, only by the Participant, without the prior written consent of the Administrator.
Non-Transferability of Awards
20. . When a Participant incurs tax liability in connection with the exercise, vesting or payout, as applicable, of an Award, which tax liability is subject to tax withholding under applicable tax laws, and the Participant is obligated to pay the Company an amount required to be withheld under applicable tax laws, the Participant may satisfy the withholding tax obligation by electing to have the Company withhold from the Shares to be issued upon exercise of the Option or SAR or the Shares to be issued upon payout or vesting of the other Award, if any, that number of Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount required to be withheld. The Fair Market Value of the Shares to be withheld shall be determined on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined (the "Tax Date").
Stock Withholding to Satisfy Withholding Tax Obligations
All elections by a Participant to have Shares withheld for this purpose shall be made in writing in a form acceptable to the Administrator and shall be subject to the following restrictions:
(a) the election must be made on or prior to the applicable Tax Date; and
(b) all elections shall be subject to the consent or disapproval of the Administrator.
In the event the election to have Shares subject to an Award withheld is made by a Participant and the Tax Date is deferred under Section 83 of the Code because no election is filed under Section 83(b) of the Code, the Participant shall receive the full number of Shares with respect to which the Option or SAR is exercised or other Award is vested but such Participant shall be unconditionally obligated to tender back to the Company the proper number of Shares on the Tax Date.
21. .
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization, Dissolution, Merger or Asset Sale
(a) . Subject to any required action by the shareholders of the Company, the number of shares of Common Stock covered by each outstanding Award, and the number of shares of Common Stock which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Awards have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Award, as well as the price per share of Common Stock covered by each such outstanding Award, the annual share limitations under Sections 6(a) and (b) hereof, and the number of Shares subject to ongoing automatic First Option and Annual Option grants to Outside Directors under Section 11 hereof shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; provided, however, that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Such adjustment shall be made by the Board, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an Award.
Changes in Capitalization
(b) . In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Administrator shall notify each Participant as soon as practicable prior to the effective date of such proposed transaction. The Administrator in its discretion (but not with respect to Options granted to Outside Directors)
Dissolution or Liquidation
may provide for a Participant to have the right to exercise his or her Option or SAR until ten (10) days prior to such transaction as to all of the Awarded Stock covered thereby, including Shares as to which the Award would not otherwise be exercisable. In addition, the Administrator may provide that any Company repurchase option or forfeiture rights applicable to any Award shall lapse 100%, and that any Award vesting shall accelerate 100%, provided the proposed dissolution or liquidation takes place at the time and in the manner contemplated. To the extent it has not been previously exercised (with respect to Options and SARs) or vested (with respect to other Awards), an Award will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action.
(c) .
Merger or Asset Sale
(i) . In the event of a merger of the Company with or into another corporation, or the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company, each outstanding Option and SAR shall be assumed or an equivalent option or SAR substituted by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation. In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the Option or SAR, the Participant shall fully vest in and have the right to exercise the Option or SAR as to all of the Awarded Stock, including Shares as to which it would not otherwise be vested or exercisable. If an Option or SAR becomes fully vested and exercisable in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a merger or asset sale, the Administrator shall notify the Participant in writing or electronically that the Option or SAR shall be fully vested and exercisable for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of such notice, and the Option or SAR shall terminate upon the expiration of such period. With respect to Options granted to Outside Directors, in the event that the Outside Director is required to terminate his or her position as an Outside Director at the request of the acquiring entity within 12 months following such merger or asset sale, each outstanding Option held by such Outside Director shall become fully vested and exercisable, including as to Shares as to which it would not otherwise be exercisable, unless the Board, in its discretion, determines otherwise.
Stock Options and SARs
(ii) . In the event of a merger of the Company with or into another corporation, or the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company, each outstanding Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Dividend Equivalent and Deferred Stock Unit award (and any related Dividend Equivalent) shall be assumed or an equivalent Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Dividend Equivalent and Deferred Stock Unit award (and any related Dividend Equivalent) substituted by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation. In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Dividend Equivalent and Deferred Stock Unit award (and any related Dividend Equivalent), the Participant shall fully vest in the Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Dividend Equivalent and Deferred Stock Unit award (and any related Dividend Equivalent), including as to Shares (or with respect to Dividend Equivalents and Performance Units, the cash equivalent thereof) which would not otherwise be vested. For the purposes of this paragraph, a Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Dividend Equivalent and Deferred Stock Unit award (and any related Dividend Equivalent) shall be considered assumed if, following the merger or asset sale, the award confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share (or with respect to Dividend Equivalents and Performance Units, the cash equivalent thereof) subject to the Award immediately prior to the merger or asset sale, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the merger or asset sale by holders of the Company's common stock for each Share held on the effective date of the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares); provided, however, that if such consideration received in the merger or asset sale is not solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent, the Administrator may, with the consent of the successor corporation, provide for the consideration to be received, for each Share and each unit/right to acquire a Share subject to the Award (other than Dividend Equivalents and Performance Units) to be solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent equal in fair market value to the per share consideration received by holders of the Company's common stock in the merger or asset sale.
Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Deferred Stock Units and Dividend Equivalents
22. . The date of grant of an Award shall, for all purposes, be the date on which the Administrator makes the determination granting such Award. Notice of the determination shall be given to each Employee or Consultant to whom an Award is so granted within a reasonable time after the date of such grant.
Time of Granting Awards
23. . The Plan shall continue in effect until March 1, 2016 .
Term of Plan
24. .
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
(a) . The Board may at any time amend, alter, suspend or terminate the Plan.
Amendment and Termination
(b) . The Company shall obtain shareholder approval of any Plan amendment to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with Rule 16b-3 or with Section 422 of the Code (or any successor rule or statute or other applicable law, rule or regulation, including the requirements of any exchange or quotation system on which the Common Stock is listed or quoted). Such shareholder approval, if required, shall be obtained in such a manner and to such a degree as is required by the applicable law, rule or regulation.
Shareholder Approval
(c) . No amendment, alteration, suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair the rights of any Participant, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Participant and the Administrator, which agreement must be in writing and signed by the Participant and the Company.
Effect of Amendment or Termination
25. . Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Option unless the exercise of such Option and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all relevant provisions of law, including, without limitation, the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, state securities laws, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
As a condition to the exercise or payout, as applicable, of an Award, the Company may require the person exercising such Option or SAR, or in the case of another Award (other than a Dividend Equivalent or Performance Unit), the person receiving the Shares upon vesting, to render to the Company a written statement containing such representations and warranties as, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, may be required to ensure compliance with any of the aforementioned relevant provisions of law, including a representation that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares, if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required.
26. . The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan. Inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
Reservation of Shares

Exhibit 10.2
Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Juniper Networks, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") shall have the same defined meanings in this Stock Option Agreement (the "Option Agreement").
I. 
NOTICE OF GRANT
[Optionee's Name and Address]
You have been granted an option to purchase Common Stock of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Option Agreement, as follows:
The Board hereby grants to the Optionee (the "Optionee") named in the Notice of Grant section of this Agreement (the "Notice of Grant"), an option (the "Option") to purchase the number of Shares set forth in the Notice of Grant, at the exercise price per share set forth in the Notice of Grant (the "Exercise Price"), subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan (which is incorporated herein by reference) and this Option Agreement. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of the Plan and the terms and conditions of this Option Agreement, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail.
(a) . This Option is exercisable during its term in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set out in the Notice of Grant and the applicable provisions of the Plan and this Option Agreement, subject to Optionee's remaining a Service Provider on each vesting date.
Right to Exercise
(b) . Subject to any extended post-termination exercise period set forth in duly authorized written agreements by and between Optionee and the Company, if Optionee ceases to be a Service Provider, then this Option may be exercised, but only to the extent vested on the date of such cessation as a Service Provider, until the earlier of (i) ninety days after the date upon which Optionee ceases to be a Service Provider, or (ii) the original seven-year Option term.
Post-Termination Exercise Period
(c) . This option may be exercised with respect to all or any part of any vested Shares by giving the Company, E*Trade OptionsLink, or any successor third-party stock option plan administrator designated by the Company written or electronic notice of such exercise, in the form designated by the Company or the Company's designated third-party stock option plan administrator, specifying the number of shares as to which this option is exercised and accompanied by payment of the aggregate Exercise Price as to all exercised shares.
Method of Exercise
This Option shall be deemed to be exercised upon receipt by the Company, E*Trade OptionsLink or any successor third-party stock option plan administrator designated by the Company of such fully executed exercise notice accompanied by such aggregate Exercise Price.
No Shares shall be issued pursuant to the exercise of this Option unless such issuance and exercise complies with applicable laws. Assuming such compliance, for income tax purposes the exercised shares shall be considered transferred to the Optionee on the date the Option is exercised with respect to such exercised shares.
(d) . Payment of the aggregate exercise price shall be by any of the following, or a combination thereof, at the election of the Optionee:
Payment of Exercise Price
(i) cash; or
(ii) check; or
(iii)  delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with such other documentation as the Administrator and a broker, if applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and delivery to the Company of the sale proceeds required to pay the exercise price.
This Option may not be transferred in any manner otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised during the lifetime of Optionee only by the Optionee. The terms of the Plan and this Option Agreement shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and assigns of the Optionee.
This Option may be exercised only within the term set out in the Notice of Grant, and may be exercised during such term only in accordance with the Plan and the terms of this Option Agreement.
Some of the federal tax consequences relating to this Option, as of the date of this Option, are set forth below. THIS SUMMARY IS NECESSARILY INCOMPLETE, AND THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. THE OPTIONEE SHOULD CONSULT A TAX ADVISER BEFORE EXERCISING THIS OPTION OR DISPOSING OF THE SHARES.
(a) . The Optionee may incur regular federal income tax liability upon exercise of a Nonstatutory Stock Option. The Optionee will be treated as having received compensation income (taxable at ordinary income tax rates) equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the exercised shares on the date of exercise over their aggregate Exercise Price. If the Optionee is an Employee or a former Employee, the Company will be required to withhold from his or her compensation or collect from Optionee and pay to the applicable taxing authorities an amount in cash equal to a percentage of this compensation income at the time of exercise, and may refuse to honor the exercise and refuse to deliver Shares if such withholding amounts are not delivered at the time of exercise.
Exercising the Option
(b) . If the Optionee holds NSO Shares for at least one year, any gain realized on disposition of the Shares will be treated as long-term capital gain for federal income tax purposes.
Disposition of Shares
The Plan is incorporated herein by reference. The Plan and this Option Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the Company and Optionee with respect to the subject matter hereof, and may not be modified adversely to the Optionee's interest except by means of a writing signed by the Company and Optionee. This agreement is governed by the internal substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of California.
By your acknowledgement and acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, you and the Company agree that this Option is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Option Agreement. Optionee has reviewed the Plan and this Option Agreement in their entirety, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to accepting this Agreement and fully understands all provisions of the Plan and this Option Agreement. Optionee hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions relating to the Plan and Option Agreement. Optionee further agrees to notify the Company upon any change in his/her residence address.

Exhibit 10.3
Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Juniper Networks, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") shall have the same defined meanings in this Stock Option Agreement (the "Option Agreement").
I. 
NOTICE OF GRANT
[Optionee's Name and Address]
You have been granted an option to purchase Common Stock of the Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Option Agreement, as follows:
The Board hereby grants to the Optionee (the "Optionee") named in the Notice of Grant section of this Agreement (the "Notice of Grant"), an option (the "Option") to purchase the number of Shares set forth in the Notice of Grant, at the exercise price per share set forth in the Notice of Grant (the "Exercise Price"), subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan (which is incorporated herein by reference) and this Option Agreement. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of the Plan and the terms and conditions of this Option Agreement, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail.
(a) . This Option is exercisable during its term in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set out in the Notice of Grant and the applicable provisions of the Plan and this Option Agreement, subject to Optionee's remaining a Director on each vesting date.
Right to Exercise
(b) . Subject to any extended post-termination exercise period set forth in duly authorized written agreements by and between Optionee and the Company, if Optionee ceases to remain in Continuous Status as a Director, then this Option may be exercised, but only to the extent vested on the date of such cessation of Continuous Status as a Director, until the earlier of (i) ninety days after the date upon which Optionee ceases his or her Continuous Status as a Director, or (ii) the original seven-year Option term.
Post-Termination Exercise Period
(c) . This option may be exercised with respect to all or any part of any vested Shares by giving the Company, E*Trade OptionsLink, or any successor third-party stock option plan administrator designated by the Company written or electronic notice of such exercise, in the form designated by the Company or the Company's designated third-party stock option plan administrator, specifying the number of shares as to which this option is exercised and accompanied by payment of the aggregate Exercise Price as to all exercised shares.
Method of Exercise
This Option shall be deemed to be exercised upon receipt by the Company, E*Trade OptionsLink or any successor third-party stock option plan administrator designated by the Company of such fully executed exercise notice accompanied by such aggregate Exercise Price.
No Shares shall be issued pursuant to the exercise of this Option unless such issuance and exercise complies with applicable laws. Assuming such compliance, for income tax purposes the exercised shares shall be considered transferred to the Optionee on the date the Option is exercised with respect to such exercised shares.
(d) . Payment of the aggregate exercise price shall be by any of the following, or a combination thereof, at the election of the Optionee:
Payment of Exercise Price
(i) cash; or
(ii) check; or
(iii)  delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with such other documentation as the Administrator and a broker, if applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and delivery to the Company of the sale proceeds required to pay the exercise price.
This Option may not be transferred in any manner otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised during the lifetime of Optionee only by the Optionee. The terms of the Plan and this Option Agreement shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors and assigns of the Optionee.
This Option may be exercised only within the term set out in the Notice of Grant, and may be exercised during such term only in accordance with the Plan and the terms of this Option Agreement.
Some of the federal tax consequences relating to this Option, as of the date of this Option, are set forth below. THIS SUMMARY IS NECESSARILY INCOMPLETE, AND THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE. THE OPTIONEE SHOULD CONSULT A TAX ADVISER BEFORE EXERCISING THIS OPTION OR DISPOSING OF THE SHARES.
(a) . The Optionee may incur regular federal income tax liability upon exercise of a Nonstatutory Stock Option. The Optionee will be treated as having received compensation income (taxable at ordinary income tax rates) equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the exercised shares on the date of exercise over their aggregate Exercise Price.
Exercising the Option
(b) . If the Optionee holds NSO Shares for at least one year, any gain realized on disposition of the Shares will be treated as long-term capital gain for federal income tax purposes.
Disposition of Shares
The Plan is incorporated herein by reference. The Plan and this Option Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede in their entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the Company and Optionee with respect to the subject matter hereof, and may not be modified adversely to the Optionee's interest except by means of a writing signed by the Company and Optionee. This agreement is governed by the internal substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of California.
By your acknowledgment and acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, you and the Company agree that this Option is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Option Agreement. Optionee has reviewed the Plan and this Option Agreement in their entirety, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to accepting this Agreement and fully understands all provisions of the Plan and this Option Agreement. Optionee hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions relating to the Plan and Option Agreement. Optionee further agrees to notify the Company upon any change in his/her residence address.

Exhibit 10.4
JUNIPER NETWORKS, INC.
Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Plan shall have the same defined meanings in this Notice of Grant.
Name:
     
You have been granted Restricted Stock Units. Each such Unit is equivalent to one Share of Common Stock of the Company for purposes of determining the number of Shares subject to this award. None of the Restricted Stock Units will be issued (nor will you have the rights of a stockholder with respect to the underlying shares) until the vesting conditions described below are satisfied. Additional terms of this grant are as follows:
     
You acknowledge and agree that this agreement and the vesting schedule set forth herein does not constitute an express or implied promise of continued engagement as a Service Provider for the vesting period, for any period, or at all, and shall not interfere with your right or the Company's right to terminate your relationship as a Service Provider at any time, with or without cause.
You hereby agree to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions relating to the Plan and this Award.
By your acknowledgement and acceptance of the terms of this Notice of Grant prior to the Expiration Date, you agree that this Notice of Grant, the form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement attached as Exhibit A hereto and the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan constitute your entire agreement with respect to this Award and may not be modified adversely to your interest except by means of a writing agreed by the Company and you.
1. . The Company hereby grants to the Employee an award of Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs"), as set forth in the Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units and subject to the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the Company's 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Plan shall have the same defined meanings in this Restricted Stock Unit Agreement.
Grant
2. . Each RSU represents the right to receive a Share on the vesting date. Unless and until the RSUs vest, the Employee will have no right to receive Shares under such RSUs. Prior to actual distribution of Shares pursuant to any vested RSUs, such RSUs will represent an unsecured obligation of the Company, payable (if at all) only from the general assets of the Company.
Company's Obligation
3. . Subject to paragraph 4, to Plan Sections 16 and 17 and to any other relevant Plan provisions, the RSUs awarded by this Agreement will vest in the Employee according to the vesting schedule specified in the Notice of Grant.
Vesting Schedule
4. . Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this Agreement or the Notice of Grant, if the Employee terminates service as a Service Provider for any or no reason prior to vesting, the unvested RSUs awarded by this Agreement will thereupon be forfeited at no cost to the Company.
Forfeiture upon Termination as Service Provider
5. . Any RSUs that vest in accordance with paragraph 3 will be paid to the Employee (or in the event of the Employee's death, to his or her estate) in Shares, provided that to the extent determined appropriate by the Company, any national, state and local withholding of taxes and/or social security contributions with respect to such RSUs, if applicable, will be paid by the Employee. The tax and/or social security contributions payment shall generally be made through the Employee's brokerage account designated by the Company. The Employee may choose to cover the tax and/or social security contributions payment through (i) cash on deposit at the broker, or (ii) by electing to have the broker sell vested shares to cover taxes, social security contributions and related fees. However, should the Employee's account have insufficient funds, the Employee will be deemed to have elected to have the broker sell vested shares to cover taxes, social security contributions and related fees. The Employee acknowledges and agrees that the amount of withholding taxes, social security contributions and related fees to be satisfied by selling vested shares be in excess, the Company will refund the excess amount to him or her within a reasonable period without any interest.
Payment after Vesting
6. . Any distribution or delivery to be made to the Employee under this Agreement will, if the Employee is then deceased, be made to the administrator or executor of the Employee's estate. Any such administrator or executor must furnish the Company with (a) written notice of his or her status as transferee, and (b) evidence satisfactory to the Company to establish the validity of the transfer and compliance with any laws or regulations pertaining to said transfer.
Payments after Death
7. . Neither the Employee nor any person claiming under or through the Employee will have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company in respect of any Shares deliverable hereunder unless and until certificates representing such Shares will have been issued, recorded on the records of the Company or its transfer agents or registrars, and delivered to the Employee or Employee's broker.
Rights as Stockholder
8. . The Employee's employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries is on an at-will basis only. Accordingly, the terms of the Employee's employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries will be determined from time to time by the Company or the Subsidiary employing the Employee (as the case may be), and the Company or the Subsidiary will have the right, which is hereby expressly reserved, to terminate or change the terms of the employment of the Employee at any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without good cause or notice.
No Effect on Employment
9. . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement will be addressed to the Company at 1194 North Mathilda Avenue
Address for Notices
Sunnyvale, California, 94089 : Stock Administration, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing or electronically.
Attn
10. . Except to the limited extent provided in paragraph 6, this grant and the rights and privileges conferred hereby will not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated in any way (whether by operation of law or otherwise) and will not be subject to sale under execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this grant, or any right or privilege conferred hereby, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process, this grant and the rights and privileges conferred hereby immediately will become null and void.
Grant is Not Transferable
11. . Subject to the limitation on the transferability of this grant contained herein, this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs, legatees, legal representatives, successors and assigns of the parties hereto.
Binding Agreement
12. . If at any time the Company will determine, in its discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of the Shares upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory authority is necessary or desirable as a condition to the issuance of Shares to the Employee (or his or her estate), such issuance will not occur unless and until such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval will have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Company. The Company will make all reasonable efforts to meet the requirements of any such state or federal law or securities exchange and to obtain any such consent or approval of any such governmental authority.
Additional Conditions to Issuance of Stock
13. . This Agreement and the Notice of Grant are subject to all terms and provisions of the Plan. In the event of a conflict between one or more provisions of this Agreement or the Notice of Grant and one or more provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan will govern.
Plan Governs
14. . The Administrator will have the power to interpret the Plan and this Agreement and to adopt such rules for the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan as are consistent therewith and to interpret or revoke any such rules (including, but not limited to, the determination of whether or not any RSUs have vested). All actions taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Administrator in good faith will be final and binding upon Employee, the Company and all other interested persons. No member of the Administrator will be personally liable for any action, determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to the Plan or this Agreement.
Administrator Authority


