FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20060125161049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 25, 2006, Juniper Networks, Inc. ("Juniper Networks") issued a press release and held a conference call regarding its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference herein. The information in this report shall be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement heretofore or hereafter filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except to the extent that such information is superseded by information as of a subsequent date that is included in or incorporated by reference into such registration statement. The information in this report shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits Exhibit No. Description 99.1 Press Release issued by Juniper Networks on January 25, 2006
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, Juniper Networks uses non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income and earnings per share, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expense and income items. These non-GAAP adjustments are provided to enhance the users overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future. Specifically, we believe the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain expense and income items that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results. In addition, since we have historically reported non-GAAP results to the investment community, we believe the inclusion of non-GAAP numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting. Further, these non-GAAP results are one of the primary indicators managem ent uses for planning and forecasting in future periods. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

SUNNYVALE, CA  January 25, 2006  Juniper Networks, Inc. (NASDAQ: JNPR) today reported its results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2005.
Net revenues for the fourth quarter of 2005 were $575.5 million, compared with $430.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2004, an increase of 34 percent.
Net income on a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis for the fourth quarter of 2005 was $105.5 million or $0.17 per share, compared with a GAAP net income of $66.0 million or $0.11 per share for the fourth quarter of 2004. Non-GAAP net income was $119.6 million or $0.20 per share, compared with non-GAAP net income of $85.9 million or $0.15 per share for the fourth quarter of 2004. A reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP net income is provided in a table immediately following the Non-GAAP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Net revenues for fiscal 2005 were $2,064.0 million, compared with $1,336.0 million for fiscal 2004, an increase of 54 percent.
GAAP net income for fiscal 2005 was $354.0 million or $0.59 per share, compared to $135.7 million or $0.25 per share for fiscal 2004. Non-GAAP net income for fiscal 2005 was $430.6 million or $0.72 per share, compared to $238.6 million or $0.44 per share, for fiscal 2004. A reconciliation between non-GAAP and GAAP net income is provided in a table immediately following the Non-GAAP Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Cash provided by operations for the fourth quarter of 2005 was $197.5 million, compared to cash provided by operations of $142.5 million for the fourth quarter of 2004. Cash provided by operations for fiscal 2005 was $642.9 million, up from $439.4 million for 2004.
Capital expenditures and depreciation during the fourth quarter of 2005 were $39.3 million and $15.4 million, respectively.
"I'm pleased to report another strong quarter and the completion of a year characterized by growth across multiple dimensions," commented Scott Kriens, chairman and CEO, Juniper Networks. "Juniper remains at the intersection of opportunity, where the increasing and strategic importance of today's network demands the integrated best-in-class solutions that the company was built to deliver. As we surpass annual revenues of $2 billion on the eve of our 10 anniversary we see a bright future, founded in the confidence our customers have placed in Juniper."
th
Juniper continued to invest in and deliver innovation throughout 2005 with significant new product and feature announcements this year, all focused on serving the evolving needs of its customers.
Juniper Networks will host a conference call web cast today, January 25, 2006 at 1:45 p.m. (Pacific Time), to be broadcasted live over the Internet . The conference call will be archived on the Juniper Networks website until February 25, 2006. A replay will be accessible by telephone on January 25th after 3:00 p.m. Pacific Time through February 2nd, 2006 by dialing 800-633-8284 (or 402-977-9140), reservation number, 21280063. The replays will be available 24 hours/day, including weekends.
http://www.juniper.net/company/investor/conferencecall.html
About Juniper Networks, Inc.
Juniper Networks is the leader in enabling secure and assured communications over a single IP network. The company's purpose-built, high performance IP platforms enable customers to support many different services and applications at scale. Service providers, enterprises, governments and research and education institutions worldwide rely on Juniper Networks to deliver products for building networks that are tailored to the specific needs of their users, services and applications. Juniper Networks' portfolio of proven networking and security solutions supports the complex scale, security and performance requirements of the world's most demanding networks. Additional information can be found at
www.juniper.net.
Juniper Networks, the Juniper Networks logo, NetScreen, NetScreen Technologies, the NetScreen logo, NetScreen-Global Pro, ScreenOS, and GigaScreen are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries.
Statements in this release concerning Juniper Networks' business outlook, future financial and operating results, and overall future prospects are forward looking statements that involve a number of uncertainties and risks. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in those forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including: general economic conditions globally or regionally; business and economic conditions in the networking industry; changes in overall technology spending; the network capacity requirements of communication service providers; increases in competition; the timing of orders and their fulfillment; availability and cost of key parts and supplies; ability to establish and maintain relationships with distributors and resellers; variations in the expected mix of products sold; changes in customer mix; customer and industry analyst perceptions of Juniper Networks and its technology, products and future prospects; delays in scheduled product availability; market acceptance of our products and services; rapid technological and market change; adoption of regulations or standards affecting our products, services or industry; the ability to successfully acquire, integrate and manage businesses and technologies; product defects, returns or vulnerabilities; the ability to recruit and retain key personnel; currency fluctuations; litigation; and other factors listed in our most recent report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All statements made in this press release are made only as of the date set forth at the beginning of this release. Juniper Networks undertakes no obligation to update the information in this release in the event facts or circumstances subsequently change after the date of this press release.
This release includes non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share data and other non-GAAP line items from the Consolidated Statements of Operations, including operating expenses, other income and expenses, income before income taxes, provision for income taxes and net income. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Juniper Networks believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP measures, when shown in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures, provides useful information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to its financial condition and results of operations. Juniper Networks further believes that where the adjustments used in calculating non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share are based on specific, identified charges that impact different line items in the statements of operations (including cost of revenues, research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expense), that it is useful to investors to know how these specific line items in the statements of operations are affected by these adjustments. For its internal budgets, Juniper Networks' management uses financial statements that do not include amortization of purchased intangible assets; in-process research and development; restructuring, impairment and related charges; integration costs; patent cross licensing expense; gain (loss) on investments; and the income tax effects of the foregoing, as applicable. Juniper Networks' management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures, in addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, in determining objectives for compensation programs or reviewing the financial results of Juniper Networks.
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. The reclassifications pertain to amortization of deferred stock compensation which had previously been reported as separate line item to the following cost and expense categories by period:
Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior period amounts to conform to the current period presentation.


