FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20070313160124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) In connection with the ongoing review of the Companys growth plans and requirements to achieve the Companys desired scale, Mr. Robert Dykes, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Mr. Robert Sturgeon, Executive Vice President, Service Layer Technology Group, each announced on March 12, 2007 that he will be resigning from Juniper Networks, Inc. (the "Company" or "Juniper"). Mr. Dykes has driven significant advances in streamlining Junipers manufacturing processes and has led the Companys finance, legal, IT, investor relations and manufacturing organizations. He will continue in his current role with Juniper through the end of April. Mr. Sturgeon has been instrumental in the development of Junipers customer service organization and in guiding the Company through the first phase of its enterprise business strategy. He will continue in his current role with Juniper through the end of March. Neither resignation was the result o f any disagreement with the Company on any matters relating to the Company's operations, policies or practices.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


