FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20080619163012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
(e) On June 13, 2008, Juniper Networks, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), adopted the Juniper Networks, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan is an unfunded deferred compensation plan intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Pursuant to the Plan, the Company provides certain eligible employees the opportunity to enter into agreements for the deferral of a specified percentage of their cash compensation derived from base salary, commissions and certain incentive/bonus awards. The amount of compensation to be deferred by each participating eligible employee (individually, a "Participant" and collectively, the "Participants") is determined in accordance with the Plan based on elections by each Participant. Each payment obligation for distribution of the deferred compensation (the "Obligation") is payable on a date or dates selected by each Participant at the time of enrollment but subject to change in certain specified circumstances. Each Participant's account pursuant to the Plan will be adjusted to reflect the positive or negative investment result of their selected investment options.
Except pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, a Participant's right or the right of any other person to the Obligations is not assignable by voluntary or involuntary assignment or by operation of law (except the right to designate a beneficiary to receive death benefits provided under the Plan), provided, however, that the Obligations are not secured and are subject to the claims of the Company's creditors. The Obligations are not subject to redemption, in whole or in part, prior to the distribution dates specified by each Participant, other than withdrawals made in the event of a Participant's Unforeseeable Emergency, as defined in the Plan. The Company reserves the right to amend or terminate the Plan at any time; provided, however, that no such action shall reduce a Participant's account under the Plan without the Participant's written consent.
This summary of the terms of the Plan is not intended to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan, which is filed hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
(d)
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Plan Sponsor has caused this Adoption Agreement to be executed this 13th day of June, 2008.
 
This document has not been approved by the Department of Labor, Internal Revenue Service or any other governmental entity. An adopting Employer must determine whether the Plan is subject to the Federal securities laws and the securities laws of the various states. An adopting Employer may not rely on this document to ensure any particular tax consequences or to ensure that the Plan is "unfunded and maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation to a select group of management or highly compensated employees" under Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, with respect to the Employer's particular situation. Fidelity Employer Services Company, its affiliates and employees cannot provide you with legal advice in connection with the execution of this document. This document should be reviewed by the Employer's attorney prior to execution.
January 2008
 
 
 
 
The Plan is intended to be a "plan which is unfunded and is maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or an "excess benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(36) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or a combination of both. The Plan is further intended to conform with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued thereunder and shall be interpreted, implemented and administered in a manner consistent therewith.
 
 
Pronouns used in the Plan are in the masculine gender but include the feminine gender unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Wherever used herein, the following terms have the meanings set forth below, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) If the Plan Sponsor has elected to permit annual distribution elections in accordance with Section 6.01(h) of the Adoption Agreement the following rules apply. At the time an Eligible Employee or Director completes a deferral agreement, the Eligible Employee or Director must elect a distribution event (which includes a specified time) and a form of payment for the Compensation subject to the deferral agreement from among the options the Plan Sponsor has made available for this purpose and which are specified in 6.01(b) of the Adoption Agreement. Prior to the time required by Reg. Sec. 1.409A-2, the Eligible Employee or Director shall elect a distribution event (which includes a specified time) and a form of payment for any Employer contributions that may be credited to the Participant's Account during the Plan Year. If an Eligible Employee or Director fails to elect a distribution event, he shall be deemed to have elected Separation from Service as the distribution event. If he fails to elect a form of payment, he shall be deemed to have elected a lump sum form of payment.
 
(b) If the Plan Sponsor has elected not to permit annual distribution elections in accordance with Section 6.01(h) of the Adoption Agreement the following rules apply. At the time an Eligible Employee or Director first completes a deferral agreement but in no event later than the time required by Reg. Sec. 1.409A-2, the Eligible Employee or Director must elect a distribution event (which includes a specified time) and a form of payment for amounts credited to his Account from among the options the Plan Sponsor has made available for this purpose and which are specified in Section 6.01(b) of the Adoption Agreement. If an Eligible Employee or Director fails to elect a distribution event, he shall be deemed to have elected Separation from Service in the distribution event. If the fails to elect a form of payment, he shall be deemed to have elected a lump sum form of payment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) The right to indemnification provided in this Section shall include the right to have the expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in defending any Proceeding paid by the Employer in advance of the final disposition of the Proceeding, to the fullest extent permitted by the law of the jurisdiction in which the Employer is incorporated; provided that, if such law requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in advance of the final disposition of a Proceeding shall be made only on delivery to the Employer of an undertaking, by or on behalf of the Indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced without interest if it shall ultimately be determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section or otherwise.
(c) Indemnification pursuant to this Section shall continue as to an Indemnitee who has ceased to be such and shall inure to the benefit of his heirs, executors, and administrators. The Employer agrees that the undertakings made in this Section shall be binding on its successors or assigns and shall survive the termination, amendment or restatement of the Plan.
 
(d) The foregoing right to indemnification shall be in addition to such other rights as the Indemnitee may enjoy as a matter of law or by reason of insurance coverage of any kind and is in addition to and not in lieu of any rights to indemnification to which the Indemnitee may be entitled pursuant to the by-laws of the Employer.
(e) For the purposes of this Section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) "Indemnitee" shall mean each person serving as an Administrator (or any other person who is an employee, director, or officer of the Employer) who was or is a party to, or is threatened to be made a party to, or is otherwise involved in, any Proceeding, by reason of the fact that he is or was performing administrative functions under the Plan.
(2) "Proceeding" shall mean any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or proceeding (including, without limitation, an action, suit, or proceeding by or in the right of the Employer), whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative, or through arbitration.


