FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20080306120317.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 6, 2008, Juniper Networks issued a press release announcing the adoption of a new common stock repurchase program of up to $1 billion. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits Exhibit No. Description 99.1 Press Release issued by Juniper Networks on March 6, 2008
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 99.1
Investor Relations:
Kathleen Bela
Juniper Networks, Inc. (408) 936-7804
kbela@juniper.net
Media Relations:
Juniper Networks Announces New Common Stock Repurchase Program of up to $1 Billion
SUNNYVALE, Calif., March 6, 2008- Juniper Networks, Inc. (Nasdaq: JNPR) announced today that its board of directors approved a new stock repurchase program which enables the Company to purchase up to $1 billion of the company's common stock. In conjunction with this new authorization, the Company will initiate an on-going, share maintenance plan designed to offset dilution from the issuance of shares related to its employee stock plans.
This new program is in addition to the $2 billion stock repurchase program approved in 2006 and 2007. To date, the Company has repurchased approximately $1.7 billion of its stock under the $2 billion authorized in 2006 and 2007.
Share repurchases under Juniper's stock repurchase programs will be subject to a review of the circumstances in place at the time and will be made from time to time in private transactions or open market purchases as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The program may be discontinued at any time.
About Juniper Networks, Inc.
Juniper Networks, Inc. is the leader in high-performance networking. Juniper offers a high-performance network infrastructure that creates a responsive and trusted environment for accelerating the deployment of services and applications over a single network. This fuels high-performance businesses. Additional information can be found at .
www.juniper.net
Juniper Networks and the Juniper Networks logo are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries.
This press release contains forward-looking statements about Juniper's common stock repurchase program, including the maximum amounts that may be purchased under the program. The statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections, are not guarantees of future performance, and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company's control and are difficult to predict, including, but not limited to, changes in the market price of Juniper's common stock and changes in Juniper's financial results, financial condition and cash requirements. Investors should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Juniper undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


