FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20080724161815.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 24, 2008, Juniper Networks, Inc. ("we", "us" or "the Company") issued a press release in which we announced financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Exhibit 99.1 shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures The tables contained in the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report include a table presenting the following non-GAAP financial measures from our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations: cost of product revenue; cost of service revenue; product gross margin, product gross margin as a percentage of product revenue; service gross margin; service gross margin as a percentage of service revenue; gross margin; gross margin as a percentage of revenue; research and development expense; sales and marketing expense; general and administrative expense; operating expense; operating income; opera ting margin; net other income and expense; income before income taxes; provision for income taxes; income tax rate; net income; net income per share and net income as a percentage of revenue. These measures are not presented in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. In addition, these measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies, limiting their usefulness for comparison purposes. The non-GAAP financial measures described herein, and identified in the table in our press release, should not be considered in isolation from measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Investors are cautioned that there are material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures as an analytical tool. In particular, many of the adjustments to our GAAP financial measures reflect the exclusion of items that are recurring and will be reflected in our financial results for the foreseeable future.
We utilize a number of different financial measures, both GAAP and non-GAAP, in analyzing and assessing the overall performance of our business, in making operating decisions, forecasting and planning for future periods, and determining payments under compensation programs. We consider the use of the non-GAAP measures presented in our press release to be helpful in assessing the performance of the continuing operation of our business. By continuing operations we mean the ongoing revenue and expenses of the business excluding certain items that render comparisons with prior periods or analysis of on-going operating trends more difficult, such as non-cash expenses not directly related to the actual cash costs of development, sale, delivery or support of our products and services, or expenses that are reflected in periods unrelated to when the actual amounts were incurred or paid. Consistent with this approach, we believe that disclosing non-GAAP financial measures to the readers of our financial statemen ts provides such readers with useful supplemental data that, while not a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, allows for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance. In addition, we have historically reported non-GAAP results to the investment community and believe that continuing to provide non-GAAP measures provides investors with a tool for comparing results over time. In assessing the overall health of our business for the periods covered by the tables in our press release and, in particular, in evaluating the non-GAAP financial line items presented in the table in our press release, we have excluded items in the following three general categories, each of which are described below: Acquisition Related Expenses, Other Items, and Stock-Based Compensation Related Items. We also provide additional detail below regarding the shares used to calculate our non-GAAP net income per share. Notes identified for line items in the table in our press r elease correspond to the appropriate note description below. Note A: Acquisition Related Expenses. We exclude certain expense items resulting from acquisitions including the following: (i) amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions; (ii) compensation related to acquisitions; and (iii) acquisition related charges. The amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions results in our recording expenses in our GAAP financial statements that were already expensed by the acquired company before the acquisition and for which we have not expended cash. Moreover, had we internally developed the products acquired, the amortization of intangible assets and the expenses of uncompleted research and development would have been expensed in prior periods. Accordingly, we analyze the performance of our operations in each period without regard to such expenses. In addition acquisitions result in non-continuing operating expenses which would not otherwise hav e been incurred by us in the normal course of our business operations. For example, we have incurred deferred compensation charges related to assumed options and transition and integration costs such as retention bonuses and acquisition-related milestone payments to acquired employees. We believe that providing non-GAAP information for acquisition-related expense items in addition to the corresponding GAAP information allows the users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historic and current results of our continuing operations, and also facilitates comparisons to less acquisitive peer companies. Note B: Other Items. We exclude certain other items that are the result of either unique or unplanned events including the following: (i) restructuring and related costs; (ii) impairment charges; (iii) stock option investigation costs and related tax costs; (iv) gain or loss on legal settlement, net of related transaction costs; (v) gain or loss on minority equity investments; and (vi) the income tax effect on our financial statements of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures. It is difficult to estimate the amount or timing of these items in advance. Restructuring and impairment charges result from events which arise from unforeseen circumstances which often occur outside of the ordinary course of continuing operations. Although these events are reflected in our GAAP financials, these unique transactions may limit the comparability of our on-going operations with prior and future periods. The unique nature of our stock option investigation costs and associated tax related charges may also limit the comparability of our on-going operations with prior and future periods. Moreover, in the case of legal settlements, these gains or losses are recorded in the period in which the matter is concluded or resolved even though the subject matter of the underlying dispute may relate to multiple or different periods. As such, we believe that these expenses do not accurately re flect the underlying performance of our continuing operations for the period in which they are incurred. Whether we realize gains or losses on minority equity investments is based primarily on the performance and market value of those independent companies. Accordingly, we believe that these gains and losses do not reflect the underlying performance of our continuing operations. We also believe providing financial information with and without the income tax effect of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures provides our management and users of the financial statements with better clarity regarding the on-going performance and future liquidity of our business. Because of these factors, we assess our operating performance both with these amounts included and excluded, and by providing this information, we believe the users of our financial statements are better able to understand the financial results of what we consider to be our continuing operations. Note C: Stock-Based Compensatio n Related Items. We provide non-GAAP information relative to our expense for stock-based compensation and related payroll tax. We began to include stock-based compensation expense in our GAAP financial measures in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, ("SFAS 123R") in January 2006. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types which effect the calculations of stock-based compensation, we believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation allows for more accurate comparisons of our operating results to our peer companies. Further, we believe that excluding stock-based compensation expense allows for a more accurate comparison of our financial results to previous periods during which our equity-based awards were not required to be reflected in our income statement. Stock-based compensation is very different from other forms of compensation. A cash salary or bonus has a fixed and unvarying cash cost. For example, the expense associated with a $10,000 bonus is equal to exactly $10,000 in cash regardless of when it is awarded and who it is awarded by. In contrast, the expense associated with an award of an option for 1,000 shares of stock is unrelated to the amount of compensation ultimately received by the employee; and the cost to the company is based on a stock-based compensation valuation methodology and underlying assumptions that may vary over time and that does not reflect any cash expenditure by the company because no cash is expended. Furthermore, the expense associated with granting an employee an option is spread over multiple years unlike other compensation expenses which are more proximate to the time of award or payment. For example, we may be recognizing expense in a year where the stock option is significantly underwater and is not going to be exercised or generate any compensation for the employee. The expense associated with an award of an option for 1,000 shares of s tock by us in one quarter may have a very different expense than an award of an identical number of shares in a different quarter. Finally, the expense recognized by us for such an option may be very different than the expense to other companies for awarding a comparable option, which makes it difficult to assess our operating performance relative to our competitors. Similar to stock-based compensation, payroll tax on stock option exercises is dependent on our stock price and the timing and exercise by employees of our stock-based compensation, over which our management has little control, and as such does not correlate to the operation of our business. Because of these unique characteristics of stock-based compensation and the related payroll tax, management excludes these expenses when analyzing the organizations business performance. We also believe that presentation of such non-GAAP information is important to enable readers of our financial statements to compare current period results with peri ods prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R. Note D: Non-GAAP Net Income Per Share Items. We provide basic non-GAAP net income per share and diluted non-GAAP net income per share. The basic non-GAAP net income per share amount was calculated based on our non-GAAP net income and the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the reporting period. The diluted non-GAAP income per share included additional dilution from potential issuance of common stock, except when such issuances would be anti-dilutive.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits Exhibit No. Description 99.1 Press release issued by Juniper Networks, Inc. on July 24, 2008
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 99.1
Kathleen Bela Juniper Networks, Inc. (408) 936-7804
Investor Relations:
kbela@juniper.net
Media Relations:
JUNIPER NETWORKS REPORTS SECOND QUARTER 2008 FINANCIAL RESULTS
SUNNYVALE, Calif., July 24, 2008
 Juniper Networks, Inc. (NASDAQ: JNPR) today reported financial results for the three months ended June 30, 2008, that included strong revenue and profit growth and improved operating profit margins.
Net revenues for the second quarter of 2008 rose 32 percent on a year-over-year basis to $879.0 million. The Company posted GAAP net income of $120.4 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, and non-GAAP net income of $156.6 million, or $0.28 per diluted share. The non-GAAP EPS figure represents an increase of 40 percent from the $0.20 per diluted share reported for the second quarter of 2007. The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results of operations is provided in a table immediately following the Net Revenues by Reportable Segment table below.
"We're very pleased with the solid results we have delivered for the first half of 2008," stated Scott Kriens, chairman and chief executive officer, Juniper Networks, Inc. "This is a testament to the strength of our product cycles, the power of our portfolio strategy and the expanded opportunities made possible by the early success of the EX-series, which together serve to underscore our improved outlook for the second half of the year."
Juniper's operating margin for the second quarter of 2008 rose to 18.3% on a GAAP basis from 13.0% in the same quarter a year ago. Non-GAAP operating margin for the second quarter of 2008 rose to 23.6% from 20.4% in the second quarter of 2007. The improvement was driven by reduced operating expense as a percentage of net revenues due to the Company's efforts to manage expenses and improve efficiency as well as revenue growth in the Company's infrastructure products, particularly in the Company's T and M series products.
The improved operating margins helped Juniper generate net cash from operations for the second quarter of 2008 of $200.5 million, compared to cash provided by operations of $199.3 million for the same quarter of 2007.
Capital expenditures as well as depreciation and amortization expense during the second quarter of 2008 were $47.4 million and $40.4 million, respectively.
"I'm pleased with the results for the June quarter, which featured both revenue momentum and increasing operating leverage," stated Robyn Denholm, chief financial officer of Juniper Networks. "We are generating more profitable revenue growth and are also driving greater operating efficiency by building expense discipline into our ongoing business model. We are making good progress toward our performance targets." 
Q2 Highlights
High-Performance Network Infrastructure
Focused on delivering the fast, reliable and secure network infrastructure customers need to scale their business and reduce operating costs, Juniper continued to achieve milestones that serve to advance the economics and fundamentals of high-performance networking. Most recently, July 7 marked the 10 anniversary of on-time, consecutive, quarterly releases of Juniper's single source operating system, JUNOS software. JUNOS serves as the foundation of Juniper's single architecture, single operating system, single release train strategy driving user demand for Juniper's end-to-end infrastructure offerings, including the recently released EX3200 and 4200 Ethernet switches, which shipped to more than 100 customers around the world in the quarter. The quarter marked the further expansion of Juniper's Open IP Development Programs with IBM, NEC, Kasenna and Polycom announcing their participation and NTT Advanced Technology announcing its adoption of the Juniper Partner Solution Development Platform to build specialized applications on top of the JUNOS network operating system.
th
th
Fueling High-Performance Businesses
In the service provider market, Juniper saw continued interest and demand across the portfolio, from the core to the edge of the network. For the T-series, Hanaro Telecom of Korea deployed the T640 for IPTV and Multiplay services; Virgin Media affirmed their ability to scale their existing 10G network; and T1600 customer shipments included NTT Communications in Japan and ONO in Spain. The MX-series continued to gain momentum, with more than 250 customers in 43 countries around the world deploying the MX-series since its introduction. Customers in the quarter included: Abovenet, Bell Canada, the Internet Initiative Japan (IIJ), Qwest, XO Communications and Yahoo!. Juniper also realized success with the MX- and E-series product combination, announcing Orcon's deployment of the MX960 and E120 and C-series Controllers, TelstraClear's deployment of the E320 and C-series Controllers and WorldxChange's deployment of the E320 for the quality delivery of advanced voice-over-IP and high-value Internet services. Juniper also announced several strategic Cable provider customers, including Comcast, Cox Communications, TeleCable and Cablecom.
In the enterprise market, Juniper continued to see expanding interest in its infrastructure and success as a strategic partner with its high-performance business customers. Commerce Bank, N.A. is a subsidiary of Commerce Bancshares, Inc., a $17 billion regional bank holding company based in Missouri. For more than 140 years, Commerce Bank has been meeting the needs of individuals and businesses with a diversified line of financial services, including business and personal banking, wealth management and estate planning and investments through its subsidiary and affiliated companies. Commerce Bank currently operates in approximately 360 locations in Missouri, Kansas, Illinois, Oklahoma and Colorado. Commerce has selected Juniper high-performance network infrastructure as the foundation of a company-wide network upgrade to their core switching, aggregation and branch office routing infrastructure. In the initial phase, Commerce Bank will deploy MX960 Ethernet services routers, M10i edge routers and J-series services routers at all branch office locations. The bank also plans to deploy the EX-series Ethernet switches into new branch bank locations as it continues its expansion forward. Key considerations driving this success were the scale, performance, reliability and security of Juniper's high-performance network infrastructure running on a single network operating system, JUNOS.
The University of Exeter, one of the U.K.'s leading research universities, has deployed a comprehensive Juniper network infrastructure solution as a foundational element of its campus-wide infrastructure upgrade to provide fast, reliable and secure access, for their more than 14,000 students, to a host of converged applications that include bandwidth intensive, quality-dependent video and audio conferencing. The University has successfully deployed Juniper Networks EX-series Ethernet switches in tandem with the MX-series Ethernet Services Routers, Integrated Security Gateways and Secure Access SSL VPN infrastructure as it strives to sustain its leading-edge research capabilities and pursue its strategic goal to move from 13th in the UK to Top-10. Key considerations in the University's decision included the power of JUNOS software, the Virtual Chassis Technology capabilities of the EX4200 and the ease of integration with other technologies across their IT infrastructure.
In addition, Hastings District Council, the administrative authority for the Hastings region on the east coast of New Zealand, has deployed Juniper high-performance network infrastructure to further its efforts to be known as the place "where business and lifestyle come together". Hastings District Council selected a mix of EX3200 and 4200 Ethernet switches that enabled an easy migration toward a mixed Layer 2 / Layer 3 environment to support a host of applications including IP Telephony across their fiber-based metro area network. Hastings also selected Juniper Networks SSG and Unified Access Control security solutions to provide consistent, enterprise-wide security for the applications and services running across the network. A key consideration in the Council's decision was JUNOS Software with its single source code, single release train and; modular architecture for highly available, scalable and evolutionary software.
Juniper also saw an ongoing adoption and integration into managed end-to-end third party enterprise solutions. HP announced that it has standardized on the Juniper Networks M- and J-series edge and services routers as integral elements of their Halo Collaboration Studio, a fully managed telepresence collaboration solution supported with the Halo Video Exchange Network.
Juniper Networks will host a conference call web cast today, July 24, 2008 at 1:45 p.m. (Pacific Time), to be broadcasted live over the Internet at: .
To participate via telephone, the dial-in number is 212-231-2931. Please call ten minutes prior to the scheduled conference call time. The webcast replay of the conference call will be archived on the Juniper Networks website until September 12, 2008.
About Juniper Networks, Inc.
Juniper Networks, Inc. is the leader in high-performance networking. Juniper offers a high-performance network infrastructure that creates a responsive and trusted environment for accelerating the deployment of services and applications over a single network. This fuels high-performance businesses. Additional information can be found at .
www.juniper.net
Juniper Networks, JUNOS and the Juniper Networks logo are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered trademarks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners.
Statements in this release concerning Juniper Networks' business outlook, future financial and operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of uncertainties and risks. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in those forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including: general economic conditions globally or regionally; business and economic conditions in the networking industry; changes in overall technology spending; the network capacity requirements of communication service providers; contractual terms that may result in the deferral of revenue; increases in and the effect of competition; the timing of orders and their fulfillment; manufacturing and supply chain constraints; ability to establish and maintain relationships with distributors and resellers; variations in the expected mix of products sold; changes in customer mix; customer and industry analyst perceptions of Juniper Networks and its technology, products and future prospects; delays in scheduled product availability; market acceptance of Juniper Networks products and services; rapid technological and market change; adoption of regulations or standards affecting Juniper Networks products, services or the networking industry; the ability to successfully acquire, integrate and manage businesses and technologies; product defects, returns or vulnerabilities; the ability to recruit and retain key personnel; currency fluctuations; litigation; and other factors listed in Juniper Networks' most recent report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All statements made in this press release are made only as of the date set forth at the beginning of this release. Juniper Networks undertakes no obligation to update the information in this release in the event facts or circumstances subsequently change after the date of this press release.
Juniper Networks believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial information provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to the company's financial condition and results of operations. For further information regarding why Juniper Networks believes that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors, the specific manner in which management uses these measures, and some of the limitations associated with the use of these measures, please refer to the discussion below.
 -  Consists of non-GAAP operating income plus non-GAAP net interest and other income.
Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The table above includes
the following non-GAAP financial measures
from our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations: cost of product revenue; cost of service revenue; product gross margin, product gross margin as a percentage of product revenue; service gross margin; service gross margin as a percentage of service revenue; gross margin; gross margin as a percentage of revenue; research and development expense; sales and marketing expense; general and administrative expense; operating expense; operating income; operating margin; net other income and expense; income before income taxes; provision for income taxes; income tax rate; net income; net income per share and net income as a percentage of revenue. These measures are not presented in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. In addition, these measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies, limiting their usefulness for comparison purposes. The non-GAAP financial measures used in the table above should not be considered in isolation from measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Investors are cautioned that there are material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures as an analytical tool. In particular, many of the adjustments to our GAAP financial measures reflect the exclusion of items that are recurring and will be reflected in our financial results for the foreseeable future.
We utilize a number of different financial measures, both GAAP and non-GAAP, in analyzing and assessing the overall performance of our business, in making operating decisions, forecasting and planning for future periods, and determining payments under compensation programs. We consider the use of the non-GAAP measures presented above to be helpful in assessing the performance of the continuing operation of our business. By continuing operations we mean the ongoing revenue and expenses of the business excluding certain items that render comparisons with prior periods or analysis of on-going operating trends more difficult, such as expenses not directly related to the actual cash costs of development, sale, delivery or support of our products and services, or expenses that are reflected in periods unrelated to when the actual amounts were incurred or paid. Consistent with this approach, we believe that disclosing non-GAAP financial measures to the readers of our financial statements provides such readers with useful supplemental data that, while not a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, allows for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance. In addition, we have historically reported non-GAAP results to the investment community and believe that continuing to provide non-GAAP measures provides investors with a tool for comparing results over time. In assessing the overall health of our business for the periods covered by the tables above and, in particular, in evaluating the financial line items presented in the table above, we have excluded items in the following three general categories, each of which are described below: Acquisition Related Expenses, Other Items, and Stock-Based Compensation Related Items. We also provide additional detail below regarding the shares used to calculate our non-GAAP net income per share. Notes identified for line items in the table above correspond to the appropriate note description below.
. We exclude certain expense items resulting from acquisitions including the following: (i) amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions; (ii) compensation related to acquisitions; and (iii) acquisition related charges. The amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions results in our recording expenses in our GAAP financial statements that were already expensed by the acquired company before the acquisition and for which we have not expended cash. Moreover, had we internally developed the products acquired, the amortization of intangible assets and the expenses of uncompleted research and development would have been expensed in prior periods. Accordingly, we analyze the performance of our operations in each period without regard to such expenses. In addition acquisitions result in non-continuing operating expenses which would not otherwise have been incurred by us in the normal course of our business operations. For example, we have incurred deferred compensation charges related to assumed options and transition and integration costs such as retention bonuses and acquisition-related milestone payments to acquired employees. We believe that providing non-GAAP information for acquisition-related expense items in addition to the corresponding GAAP information allows the users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historic and current results of our continuing operations, and also facilitates comparisons to less acquisitive peer companies.
Note A: Acquisition Related Expenses
. We exclude certain other items that are the result of either unique or unplanned events including the following: (i) restructuring and related costs; (ii) impairment charges; (iii) stock option investigation costs and related tax costs; (iv) gain or loss on legal settlement, net of related transaction costs; (v) gain or loss on minority equity investments; and (vi) the income tax effect on our financial statements of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures. It is difficult to estimate the amount or timing of these items in advance. Restructuring and impairment charges result from events which arise from unforeseen circumstances which often occur outside of the ordinary course of continuing operations. Although these events are reflected in our GAAP financials, these unique transactions may limit the comparability of our on-going operations with prior and future periods. The unique nature of our stock option investigation costs and associated tax related charges may also limit the comparability of our on-going operations with prior and future periods. Moreover, in the case of legal settlements, these gains or losses are recorded in the period in which the matter is concluded or resolved even though the subject matter of the underlying dispute may relate to multiple or different periods. As such, we believe that these expenses do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our continuing operations for the period in which they are incurred. Whether we realize gains or losses on minority equity investments is based primarily on the performance and market value of those independent companies. Accordingly, we believe that these gains and losses do not reflect the underlying performance of our continuing operations. We also believe providing financial information with and without the income tax effect of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures provides our management and users of the financial statements with better clarity regarding the on-going performance and future liquidity of our business. Because of these factors, we assess our operating performance both with these amounts included and excluded, and by providing this information, we believe the users of our financial statements are better able to understand the financial results of what we consider to be our continuing operations.
Note B: Other Items
. We provide non-GAAP information relative to our expense for stock-based compensation and related payroll tax. We began to include stock-based compensation expense in our GAAP financial measures in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), , ("SFAS 123R") in January 2006. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types which effect the calculations of stock-based compensation, we believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation allows for more accurate comparisons of our operating results to our peer companies. Further, we believe that excluding stock-based compensation expense allows for a more accurate comparison of our financial results to previous periods during which our equity-based awards were not required to be reflected in our income statement. Stock-based compensation is very different from other forms of compensation. A cash salary or bonus has a fixed and unvarying cash cost. For example, the expense associated with a $10,000 bonus is equal to exactly $10,000 in cash regardless of when it is awarded and who it is awarded by. In contrast, the expense associated with an award of an option for 1,000 shares of stock is unrelated to the amount of compensation ultimately received by the employee; and the cost to the company is based on a stock-based compensation valuation methodology and underlying assumptions that may vary over time and that does not reflect any cash expenditure by the company because no cash is expended. Furthermore, the expense associated with granting an employee an option is spread over multiple years unlike other compensation expenses which are more proximate to the time of award or payment. For example, we may be recognizing expense in a year where the stock option is significantly underwater and is not going to be exercised or generate any compensation for the employee. The expense associated with an award of an option for 1,000 shares of stock by us in one quarter may have a very different expense than an award of an identical number of shares in a different quarter. Finally, the expense recognized by us for such an option may be very different than the expense to other companies for awarding a comparable option, which makes it difficult to assess our operating performance relative to our competitors. Similar to stock-based compensation, payroll tax on stock option exercises is dependent on our stock price and the timing and exercise by employees of our stock-based compensation, over which our management has little control, and as such does not correlate to the operation of our business. Because of these unique characteristics of stock-based compensation and the related payroll tax, management excludes these expenses when analyzing the organization's business performance. We also believe that presentation of such non-GAAP information is important to enable readers of our financial statements to compare current period results with periods prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R.
Note C: Stock-Based Compensation Related Items
Share-Based Payment
We provide basic non-GAAP net income per share and diluted non-GAAP net income per share. The basic non-GAAP net income per share amount was calculated based on our non-GAAP net income and the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the reporting period. The diluted non-GAAP income per share included additional dilution from potential issuance of common stock, except when such issuances would be anti-dilutive.
Note D: Non-GAAP Net Income Per Share Items.


