FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20081023161034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 23, 2008, Juniper Networks, Inc. ("we", "us" or "the Company") issued a press release in which we announced financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Exhibit 99.1 shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures The tables contained in the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report include tables presenting the following non-GAAP financial measures from our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations: cost of product revenue; cost of service revenue; product gross margin, product gross margin as a percentage of product revenue; service gross margin; service gross margin as a percentage of service revenue; gross margin; gross margin as a percentage of revenue; research and development expense; sales and marketing expense; general and administrative expense; operating expense; operating income ; operating margin; net other income and expense; income before income taxes; provision for income taxes; income tax rate; net income; net income per share and net income as a percentage of revenue. These measures are not presented in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. In addition, these measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies, limiting their usefulness for comparison purposes. The non-GAAP financial measures described herein, and identified in the table in our press release, should not be considered in isolation from measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Investors are cautioned that there are material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures as an analytical tool. In particular, many of the adjustments to our GAAP financial measures reflect the exclusion of items that are recurring and will be reflected in our financial results for the foreseeable fut ure. We utilize a number of different financial measures, both GAAP and non-GAAP, in analyzing and assessing the overall performance of our business, in making operating decisions, forecasting and planning for future periods, and determining payments under compensation programs. We consider the use of the non-GAAP measures presented in our press release to be helpful in assessing the performance of the continuing operation of our business. By continuing operations we mean the ongoing revenue and expenses of the business excluding certain items that render comparisons with prior periods or analysis of on-going operating trends more difficult, such as non-cash expenses not directly related to the actual cash costs of development, sale, delivery or support of our products and services, or expenses that are reflected in periods unrelated to when the actual amounts were incurred or paid. Consistent with this approach, we believe that disclosing non-GAAP financial measures to the readers of our financial s tatements provides such readers with useful supplemental data that, while not a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, allows for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance. In addition, we have historically reported non-GAAP results to the investment community and believe that continuing to provide non-GAAP measures provides investors with a tool for comparing results over time. In assessing the overall health of our business for the periods covered by the tables in our press release and, in particular, in evaluating the non-GAAP financial line items presented in the table in our press release, we have excluded items in the following three general categories, each of which are described below: Acquisition Related Expenses, Other Items, and Stock-Based Compensation Related Items. We also provide additional detail below regarding the shares used to calculate our non-GAAP net income per share. Notes identified for line items in the table in our press release correspond to the appropriate note description below. Note A: Acquisition Related Expenses. We exclude certain expense items resulting from acquisitions including the following: (i) amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions; (ii) compensation related to acquisitions; and (iii) acquisition related charges. The amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions results in our recording expenses in our GAAP financial statements that were already expensed by the acquired company before the acquisition and for which we have not expended cash. Moreover, had we internally developed the products acquired, the amortization of intangible assets and the expenses of uncompleted research and development would have been expensed in prior periods. Accordingly, we analyze the performance of our operations in each period without regard to such expenses. In addition acquisitions result in non-continuing operating expenses which would not otherw ise have been incurred by us in the normal course of our business operations. For example, we have incurred deferred compensation charges related to assumed options and transition and integration costs such as retention bonuses and acquisition-related milestone payments to acquired employees. We believe that providing non-GAAP information for acquisition-related expense items in addition to the corresponding GAAP information allows the users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historic and current results of our continuing operations, and also facilitates comparisons to less acquisitive peer companies. Note B: Other Items. We exclude certain other items that are the result of either unique or unplanned events including the following: (i) restructuring and related costs; (ii) impairment charges; (iii) stock option investigation costs and related tax costs; (iv) gain or loss on legal settlement, net of related transaction costs; (v) gain or loss on minority equity investment s; and (vi) the income tax effect on our financial statements of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures. It is difficult to estimate the amount or timing of these items in advance. Restructuring and impairment charges result from events which arise from unforeseen circumstances which often occur outside of the ordinary course of continuing operations. Although these events are reflected in our GAAP financials, these unique transactions may limit the comparability of our on-going operations with prior and future periods. The unique nature of our stock option investigation costs and associated tax related charges may also limit the comparability of our on-going operations with prior and future periods. Moreover, in the case of legal settlements, these gains or losses are recorded in the period in which the matter is concluded or resolved even though the subject matter of the underlying dispute may relate to multiple or different periods. As such, we believe that these expenses do not accura tely reflect the underlying performance of our continuing operations for the period in which they are incurred. Whether we realize gains or losses on minority equity investments is based primarily on the performance and market value of those independent companies. Accordingly, we believe that these gains and losses do not reflect the underlying performance of our continuing operations. We also believe providing financial information with and without the income tax effect of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures provides our management and users of the financial statements with better clarity regarding the on-going performance and future liquidity of our business. Because of these factors, we assess our operating performance both with these amounts included and excluded, and by providing this information, we believe the users of our financial statements are better able to understand the financial results of what we consider to be our continuing operations. Note C: Stock-Based Comp ensation Related Items. We provide non-GAAP information relative to our expense for stock-based compensation and related payroll tax. We began to include stock-based compensation expense in our GAAP financial measures in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, ("SFAS 123R") in January 2006. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types which effect the calculations of stock-based compensation, we believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation allows for more accurate comparisons of our operating results to our peer companies. Further, we believe that excluding stock-based compensation expense allows for a more accurate comparison of our financial results to previous periods during which our equity-based awards were not required to be reflected in our income statement. Stock-based compensation is very different from other forms of compensation. A cash salary or bonus has a fix ed and unvarying cash cost. For example, the expense associated with a $10,000 bonus is equal to exactly $10,000 in cash regardless of when it is awarded and who it is awarded by. In contrast, the expense associated with an award of an option for 1,000 shares of stock is unrelated to the amount of compensation ultimately received by the employee; and the cost to the company is based on a stock-based compensation valuation methodology and underlying assumptions that may vary over time and that does not reflect any cash expenditure by the company because no cash is expended. Furthermore, the expense associated with granting an employee an option is spread over multiple years unlike other compensation expenses which are more proximate to the time of award or payment. For example, we may be recognizing expense in a year where the stock option is significantly underwater and is not going to be exercised or generate any compensation for the employee. The expense associated with an award of an option for 1,000 shar es of stock by us in one quarter may have a very different expense than an award of an identical number of shares in a different quarter. Finally, the expense recognized by us for such an option may be very different than the expense to other companies for awarding a comparable option, which makes it difficult to assess our operating performance relative to our competitors. Similar to stock-based compensation, payroll tax on stock option exercises is dependent on our stock price and the timing and exercise by employees of our stock-based compensation, over which our management has little control, and as such does not correlate to the operation of our business. Because of these unique characteristics of stock-based compensation and the related payroll tax, management excludes these expenses when analyzing the organizations business performance. We also believe that presentation of such non-GAAP information is important to enable readers of our financial statements to compare current period results wi th periods prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R. Note D: Non-GAAP Net Income Per Share Items. We provide basic non-GAAP net income per share and diluted non-GAAP net income per share. The basic non-GAAP net income per share amount was calculated based on our non-GAAP net income and the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the reporting period. The diluted non-GAAP income per share included additional dilution from potential issuance of common stock, except when such issuances would be anti-dilutive.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits Exhibit No. Description 99.1 Press release issued by Juniper Networks, Inc. on October 23, 2008
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 99.1
Kathleen Bela Juniper Networks, Inc. (408) 936-7804
Investor Relations:
kbela@juniper.net
Media Relations:
JUNIPER NETWORKS REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2008 FINANCIAL RESULTS
SUNNYVALE, Calif., October 23, 2008
 Juniper Networks, Inc. (NASDAQ: JNPR) today reported financial results for the three months ended September 30, 2008, that included solid revenues, expanding margins, and improved profitability.
Net revenues for the third quarter of 2008 rose 29% on a year-over-year basis to $947.0 million. The Company posted GAAP net income of $148.5 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, and non-GAAP net income of $175.6 million, or $0.32 per diluted share. The non-GAAP EPS figure represents an increase of 45 percent from the $0.22 per diluted share reported for the third quarter of 2007. The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP results of operations is provided in a table immediately following the Net Revenues by Reportable Segment table below.
"Juniper delivered a solid quarter during a period of global economic uncertainty," stated Kevin Johnson, chief executive officer of Juniper Networks. "We continue to enhance our product portfolio, expand our reach to customers, and improve operational execution.  These factors have enabled us to drive revenue growth and improve operating margins.  The long-term growth potential of the high-performance networking market is strong and, even in this uncertain economic climate, we are cautiously optimistic about our near-term opportunities."
Juniper's operating margin for the third quarter of 2008 rose to 21.3% on a GAAP basis from 15.3% in the same quarter a year ago. Non-GAAP operating margin for the third quarter of 2008 rose to 25.1% from 21.1% in the third quarter of 2007. The improvement was achieved through continued cost discipline and improved operating efficiency.
The improved operating margins helped Juniper generate net cash from operations for the third quarter of 2008 of $204.6 million, compared to cash provided by operations of $191.4 million for the same quarter of 2007.
Capital expenditures as well as depreciation and amortization expense during the third quarter of 2008 were $40.9 million and $38.9 million, respectively.
"Juniper's results this quarter reflect good revenue growth paired with an operating model focused on efficiencies, smart investments and more productive sales and marketing programs," stated Robyn Denholm, chief financial officer of Juniper Networks. "We delivered strong margins, solid earnings per share, and healthy levels of cash from operations. We will continue to focus on our operational excellence initiatives," concluded Denholm.
Recent Highlights
High-Performance Network Infrastructure
Juniper continues to deliver innovative solutions to the market that advance the fundamentals and economics of high-performance networking. Juniper introduced the industry's first Dynamic Services Architecture and a new category of extensible "no compromise" networking and security products with its SRX series. This new architecture and product family are designed to deliver scalable performance and operational simplicity to help high-performance businesses tightly align rapidly changing business requirements with network technology investments to accelerate new service deployments.
In addition, Juniper introduced enhancements to existing solutions to help customers maximize their network infrastructure investments and lower their overall total cost of ownership. Juniper announced the Intelligent Service Edge  an integrated portfolio of new features for its M- and MX-series routers that will extend JUNOS to a broad range of new applications. The enhancements will facilitate intelligent convergence at the edge, which drives network monetization by speeding deployment of new services and reducing operational costs and complexity. Juniper customers, such as Deutsche Telekom and Telecom Italia, endorsed the approach. Saverio Orlando, executive director of Network Department, Telecom Italia said, "the Intelligent Services Edge further demonstrates that the vision and strategy of Telecom Italia and Juniper are aligned. This is another step that will allow us to reduce the costs of building and scaling our network infrastructure, while concurrently enhancing service delivery and network flexibility."
Juniper also expanded its Network and Security Manager (NSM) to deliver the industry's first centralized management solution for routing, security and switching, enabling customers to consolidate and simplify the management of their network infrastructure to increase security, reduce cost and realize operational gains. Juniper also announced enhancements to its Access Control Solution, to deliver best-in-class scalability and performance, with centralized access policy management via NSM, helping customers cost-effectively achieve comprehensive network visibility with broad enforcement capabilities. In addition, Juniper announced the next generation of its best-in-class WXC application acceleration platforms to deliver a more scalable, modular and cost-effective approach to delivering fast and consistent application response across the WAN.
Juniper's Partner Solution Development Platform  or PSDP  which enables customers and partners to develop specialized applications on JUNOS, continues to gain momentum, driving innovation in the networking industry. For example, Juniper announced that Triveni Digital has joined the Open IP Solution Development Program. By integrating Triveni Digital's video experience and video signal management solutions with JUNOS, service provider customers will be able to deliver the highest quality level of video services  more reliably and with scale.
Fueling High-Performance Businesses
Customers continue to turn to Juniper as a strategic partner, leveraging Juniper's high-performance networking portfolio to accelerate revenue generation, achieve differentiation and lower total cost of ownership. In the service provider market, XO Communications, a leading nationwide provider of advanced communications services and solutions for businesses, enterprises, government, carriers and service providers, deployed MX960 Ethernet Services Routers to accelerate the speed with which it can introduce new services in response to increasing demand from enterprises and wholesale customers, while reducing operational costs.
Telecom New Zealand International (TNZI), a global service provider of Internet transit, data, voice and mobile services, has upgraded the capacity and security of its international network with Juniper Networks M-series routers and Integrated Security Gateways (ISG) to enhance the responsiveness and efficiency of service delivery to new consumers.
In the enterprise market, Technicolor, the leader in video solutions for the communication, media and entertainment industries, values the ongoing efficiencies it can achieve with their Juniper solutions.  The simplicity and ease of management made possible by the common operating system, JUNOS, ensures their MPLS network is able to meet the demanding requirements of all their constituents.
Ajisen (China) Holdings Limited, a leading Chinese fast food company, deployed Juniper's routing, security and switching solutions to help them reduce the cost, complexity and risk of delivering business-critical IT services to the company's mobile workforce and more than 243 retail locations across China.
Ferrum College, in Virginia, replaced its 10-year legacy infrastructure with Juniper's EX-series Switches, Secure Services Gateway and Unified Access Control, to improve network performance, improve reliability and decrease maintenance costs in line with their continued expansion.
As part of their data center improvement project, AdvancedMD Software Inc., a leading provider of Web-based practice management solutions for physician offices, management services organizations and medical billing services, was looking to improve the scalability of their switching infrastructure and maintain high service quality during a time of rapid growth. The Juniper Networks EX switches were the best fit, enabling them to get more for less  they were able to reduce the footprint of their data center and realize energy and operational savings, along with the peace of mind they have the flexibility to grow their platform as the medical industry continues to rapidly adopt the SaaS (soft-as-a-service) model.
AmazingMail.com, Inc., a leader in advanced direct mail marketing solutions, found that "deploying Juniper's EX-series switches and SSG firewalls has helped us to achieve and surpass our operational and financial objectives," said Larry Prine, lead systems administrator for AmazingMail.com, Inc. "We have increased network performance, simplified operations, and lowered our operational expenses so significantly that we had enough budget left over to purchase two of everything ensuring full redundancy of our network infrastructure. We're realizing an annualized savings of $90,000 (USD) in IT costs, we've reduced our data center footprint and we've achieved additional power consumption savings. Now we spend less on building, managing and maintaining the network, and more on strategic revenue-generating activities."
Corporate News
Juniper sponsored the launch of the Carbon Disclosure Project's sixth report, reaffirming its continued commitment to understanding and documenting its environmental impact. For the third year in a row, Juniper voluntarily collected and submitted its green house gas emissions for worldwide reporting. Juniper was recognized as an industry leader for its carbon disclosure, ranking fourth in the technology, media and telecommunications category of the Carbon Disclosure Project Report 2008  S&P 500.
Juniper Networks will host a conference call web cast today, October 23, 2008 at 1:45 p.m. (Pacific Time), to be broadcasted live over the Internet at: .
http://www.juniper.net/company/investor/conferencecall.html
To participate via telephone, the dial-in number is 877-407-0778. Please call ten minutes prior to the scheduled conference call time. The webcast replay of the conference call will be archived on the Juniper Networks website until December 12, 2008.
About Juniper Networks, Inc.
Juniper Networks, Inc. is the leader in high-performance networking. Juniper offers a high-performance network infrastructure that creates a responsive and trusted environment for accelerating the deployment of services and applications over a single network. This fuels high-performance businesses. Additional information can be found at .
www.juniper.net
Juniper Networks, JUNOS and the Juniper Networks logo are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks, service marks, registered trademarks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners.
Statements in this release concerning Juniper Networks' business outlook, future financial and operating results and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of uncertainties and risks. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in those forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including: general economic conditions globally or regionally; business and economic conditions in the networking industry; changes in overall technology spending; the network capacity requirements of communication service providers; contractual terms that may result in the deferral of revenue; increases in and the effect of competition; the timing of orders and their fulfillment; manufacturing and supply chain constraints; ability to establish and maintain relationships with distributors and resellers; variations in the expected mix of products sold; changes in customer mix; customer and industry analyst perceptions of Juniper Networks and its technology, products and future prospects; delays in scheduled product availability; market acceptance of Juniper Networks products and services; rapid technological and market change; adoption of regulations or standards affecting Juniper Networks products, services or the networking industry; the ability to successfully acquire, integrate and manage businesses and technologies; product defects, returns or vulnerabilities; the ability to recruit and retain key personnel; currency fluctuations; litigation; and other factors listed in Juniper Networks' most recent report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All statements made in this press release are made only as of the date set forth at the beginning of this release. Juniper Networks undertakes no obligation to update the information in this release in the event facts or circumstances subsequently change after the date of this press release.
Juniper Networks believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial information provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to the company's financial condition and results of operations. For further information regarding why Juniper Networks believes that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors, the specific manner in which management uses these measures, and some of the limitations associated with the use of these measures, please refer to the discussion below.
 -  Consists of non-GAAP operating income plus non-GAAP net interest and other income.
Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The table above includes
the following non-GAAP financial measures
from our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations: cost of product revenue; cost of service revenue; product gross margin, product gross margin as a percentage of product revenue; service gross margin; service gross margin as a percentage of service revenue; gross margin; gross margin as a percentage of revenue; research and development expense; sales and marketing expense; general and administrative expense; operating expense; operating income; operating margin; net other income and expense; income before income taxes; provision for income taxes; income tax rate; net income; net income per share and net income as a percentage of revenue. These measures are not presented in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. In addition, these measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies, limiting their usefulness for comparison purposes. The non-GAAP financial measures used in the table above should not be considered in isolation from measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Investors are cautioned that there are material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures as an analytical tool. In particular, many of the adjustments to our GAAP financial measures reflect the exclusion of items that are recurring and will be reflected in our financial results for the foreseeable future.
We utilize a number of different financial measures, both GAAP and non-GAAP, in analyzing and assessing the overall performance of our business, in making operating decisions, forecasting and planning for future periods, and determining payments under compensation programs. We consider the use of the non-GAAP measures presented above to be helpful in assessing the performance of the continuing operation of our business. By continuing operations we mean the ongoing revenue and expenses of the business excluding certain items that render comparisons with prior periods or analysis of on-going operating trends more difficult, such as expenses not directly related to the actual cash costs of development, sale, delivery or support of our products and services, or expenses that are reflected in periods unrelated to when the actual amounts were incurred or paid. Consistent with this approach, we believe that disclosing non-GAAP financial measures to the readers of our financial statements provides such readers with useful supplemental data that, while not a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, allows for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance. In addition, we have historically reported non-GAAP results to the investment community and believe that continuing to provide non-GAAP measures provides investors with a tool for comparing results over time. In assessing the overall health of our business for the periods covered by the tables above and, in particular, in evaluating the financial line items presented in the table above, we have excluded items in the following three general categories, each of which are described below: Acquisition Related Expenses, Other Items, and Stock-Based Compensation Related Items. We also provide additional detail below regarding the shares used to calculate our non-GAAP net income per share. Notes identified for line items in the table above correspond to the appropriate note description below.
. We exclude certain expense items resulting from acquisitions including the following: (i) amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions; (ii) compensation related to acquisitions; and (iii) acquisition related charges. The amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions results in our recording expenses in our GAAP financial statements that were already expensed by the acquired company before the acquisition and for which we have not expended cash. Moreover, had we internally developed the products acquired, the amortization of intangible assets and the expenses of uncompleted research and development would have been expensed in prior periods. Accordingly, we analyze the performance of our operations in each period without regard to such expenses. In addition acquisitions result in non-continuing operating expenses which would not otherwise have been incurred by us in the normal course of our business operations. For example, we have incurred deferred compensation charges related to assumed options and transition and integration costs such as retention bonuses and acquisition-related milestone payments to acquired employees. We believe that providing non-GAAP information for acquisition-related expense items in addition to the corresponding GAAP information allows the users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historic and current results of our continuing operations, and also facilitates comparisons to less acquisitive peer companies.
Note A: Acquisition Related Expenses
. We exclude certain other items that are the result of either unique or unplanned events including the following: (i) restructuring and related costs; (ii) impairment charges; (iii) stock option investigation costs and related tax costs; (iv) gain or loss on legal settlement, net of related transaction costs; (v) gain or loss on minority equity investments; and (vi) the income tax effect on our financial statements of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures. It is difficult to estimate the amount or timing of these items in advance. Restructuring and impairment charges result from events which arise from unforeseen circumstances which often occur outside of the ordinary course of continuing operations. Although these events are reflected in our GAAP financials, these unique transactions may limit the comparability of our on-going operations with prior and future periods. The unique nature of our stock option investigation costs and associated tax related charges may also limit the comparability of our on-going operations with prior and future periods. Moreover, in the case of legal settlements, these gains or losses are recorded in the period in which the matter is concluded or resolved even though the subject matter of the underlying dispute may relate to multiple or different periods. As such, we believe that these expenses do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our continuing operations for the period in which they are incurred. Whether we realize gains or losses on minority equity investments is based primarily on the performance and market value of those independent companies. Accordingly, we believe that these gains and losses do not reflect the underlying performance of our continuing operations. We also believe providing financial information with and without the income tax effect of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures provides our management and users of the financial statements with better clarity regarding the on-going performance and future liquidity of our business. Because of these factors, we assess our operating performance both with these amounts included and excluded, and by providing this information, we believe the users of our financial statements are better able to understand the financial results of what we consider to be our continuing operations.
Note B: Other Items
. We provide non-GAAP information relative to our expense for stock-based compensation and related payroll tax. We began to include stock-based compensation expense in our GAAP financial measures in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), , ("SFAS 123R") in January 2006. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types which effect the calculations of stock-based compensation, we believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation allows for more accurate comparisons of our operating results to our peer companies. Further, we believe that excluding stock-based compensation expense allows for a more accurate comparison of our financial results to previous periods during which our equity-based awards were not required to be reflected in our income statement. Stock-based compensation is very different from other forms of compensation. A cash salary or bonus has a fixed and unvarying cash cost. For example, the expense associated with a $10,000 bonus is equal to exactly $10,000 in cash regardless of when it is awarded and who it is awarded by. In contrast, the expense associated with an award of an option for 1,000 shares of stock is unrelated to the amount of compensation ultimately received by the employee; and the cost to the company is based on a stock-based compensation valuation methodology and underlying assumptions that may vary over time and that does not reflect any cash expenditure by the company because no cash is expended. Furthermore, the expense associated with granting an employee an option is spread over multiple years unlike other compensation expenses which are more proximate to the time of award or payment. For example, we may be recognizing expense in a year where the stock option is significantly underwater and is not going to be exercised or generate any compensation for the employee. The expense associated with an award of an option for 1,000 shares of stock by us in one quarter may have a very different expense than an award of an identical number of shares in a different quarter. Finally, the expense recognized by us for such an option may be very different than the expense to other companies for awarding a comparable option, which makes it difficult to assess our operating performance relative to our competitors. Similar to stock-based compensation, payroll tax on stock option exercises is dependent on our stock price and the timing and exercise by employees of our stock-based compensation, over which our management has little control, and as such does not correlate to the operation of our business. Because of these unique characteristics of stock-based compensation and the related payroll tax, management excludes these expenses when analyzing the organization's business performance. We also believe that presentation of such non-GAAP information is important to enable readers of our financial statements to compare current period results with periods prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R.
Note C: Stock-Based Compensation Related Items
Share-Based Payment
We provide basic non-GAAP net income per share and diluted non-GAAP net income per share. The basic non-GAAP net income per share amount was calculated based on our non-GAAP net income and the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the reporting period. The diluted non-GAAP income per share included additional dilution from potential issuance of common stock, except when such issuances would be anti-dilutive.
Note D: Non-GAAP Net Income Per Share Items.


