FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20100210163537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) Juniper Networks, Inc. (the "Company") today issued a press release in which it announced a series of executive assignments. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1. In connection with this announcement, on February 5, 2010, Kim Perdikou, Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Companys Infrastructure Products Group, and Company management decided that she will transition from her current role to a newly created position at the Company, working directly with Company CEO Kevin Johnson to focus on developing and deepening Company relationships with service provider customers and partners.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Press release issued by Juniper Networks, Inc. on February 10, 2010
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

 Juniper Networks (NYSE: JNPR) today announced a new business group and a series of executive assignments that will enable the company to help service providers better respond to the technological and economic challenges they face today. The moves are aligned with the vision of the new network that transforms the economics and enables new experiences for customers globally.
SUNNYVALE, Calif, February 10, 2010
"Late last year, Juniper unveiled a new strategic vision and introduced a series of groundbreaking silicon, software, systems and partnerships to meet the New Network' demands of the next decade," said Kevin Johnson, Juniper's chief executive officer. "This New Network is based on smart systems, open software platforms and an approach that adapts to changing business dynamics by embracing partnerships and unleashing innovation. Today's announcements signal the next step in our evolution and underscore our commitment to helping customers tackle the relevant issues of economics and experiences."
Leading today's announcements is the formation of a new business group, the fourth in Juniper's organizational structure, called Junos Ready Software (JRS). JRS will be dedicated to creating and delivering an ecosystem of software and applications built on the Junos platform to solve the most pressing challenges facing customers today. These challenges include the development and deployment of advanced mobility and video solutions, automation of network tasks that reduces operating expenses, as well as the delivery of additional value-added services.
Junos Ready Software  A New Business Group Focused on Fueling Innovation
Junos is a high-performance network operating system that includes an SDK for the development of intelligent, on-board applications. The Junos platform integrates routing, switching, security, and network services to reduce complexity and simplify new deployments.
The Junos Ready Software group will deliver Juniper and partner-built applications, all running on the Junos platform. It will include the following specific operating components:
JRS will be headed by executive vice president and general manager, Manoj Leelanivas, an 11-year Juniper veteran and proven technology leader, who will now report directly to Juniper CEO Kevin Johnson. Leelanivas most recently served as senior vice president and general manager of the Edge and Aggregation business unit, where he led the development and launch of Juniper's groundbreaking MX 3D Series Universal Edge Routers. Additionally, he was responsible for notable progress in Juniper's Project Falcon initiative.
"I am honored to be named the head of Junos Ready Software, a dynamic new business group that will work collaboratively with our customers and partners to accelerate the pace of innovation needed to deliver services end-users require while dramatically improving our customer's top-line economics," said Leelanivas. "The initial tasks of JRS will be delivering on the Project Falcon roadmap, enabling mobile content delivery, advertising insertion, service monitoring and delivery  all optimized to run on the Junos software platform. We look forward to rolling out our initial wave of solutions and building on that foundation."
In addition to establishing the Junos Ready Software business group, Juniper also made two executive assignments to further strengthen the company's relationships with and contributions to service providers.
Additional Top Management Assignments to Enhance Customer Value
Kim Perdikou, a 10-year Juniper veteran, who most recently served as executive vice president and general manager of Juniper's Infrastructure Products Group (IPG), will move to a newly created position working directly with CEO Kevin Johnson to focus on developing and deepening Juniper relationships with service provider customers and partners. As executive vice president, Perdikou will join the office of the CEO in a new role that leverages her deep industry knowledge and customer relationships to guide key strategic projects that further Juniper's global market leadership.
During her four-year tenure as head of IPG, Perdikou oversaw a significant expansion of the group's portfolio, including the introduction of several innovative products, such as the multichassis-capable T1600 Core Router, JCS1200 Control System, the full MX 3D Series Universal Edge Routers, and the ongoing development of Juniper's mobile core solutions.
Stefan Dyckerhoff has been named executive vice president, assuming leadership responsibilities for IPG, reporting directly to Juniper CEO Kevin Johnson. An original member of Juniper's engineering team during the company's first seven years, Dyckerhoff recently rejoined the company from Cisco Systems.
While at Cisco Systems, Dyckerhoff served as vice president and general manager of the Edge Routing Business Unit (ERBU) and was responsible for managing a multi-billion dollar product portfolio targeted at both the service provider and enterprise markets. In addition to running ERBU, Dyckerhoff also served as the executive sponsor for some of the company's largest customers, as well as an executive member of several company cross-functional boards in the areas of service provider infrastructure, mobile internet, enterprise architecture and security.
"In order to truly help service providers succeed in the next decade, their vendors need to have the right mix of superior technology, a robust partner ecosystem and a unique, collaborative approach to solving business problems. This is why I chose to rejoin Juniper Networks and why I couldn't be more excited for our future," said Dyckerhoff, now executive vice president and general manager of IPG. "Thanks to Kim's leadership, IPG is well positioned for the future with a strong portfolio that includes the groundbreaking MX 3D Series routers and T Series chipsets, and a strong innovation pipeline. IPG will continue to focus on delivering quality products based on Junos that fundamentally improve the economics for our service provider customers by delivering best-in-class TCO and by building a network platform for revenue-generating Junos Ready Software applications."
Leelanivas, Perdikou and Dyckerhoff, as well as other Juniper executives, will be attending Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, next week where the company will be making additional announcements.
From devices to data centers, from consumers to the cloud, Juniper Networks delivers innovative software, silicon and systems that transform the experience and economics of networking. The company serves more than 30,000 customers and partners worldwide, and generated more than $3 billion in revenue over the last year. Additional information can be found at .
About Juniper Networks
www.juniper.net
Juniper Networks and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries.  The Juniper Networks and Junos logos are trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. All other trademarks, service marks, registered trademarks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners.


