FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20110725163937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(c) Beginning in February 2011, Juniper Networks, Inc. (the "Company") began implementing a new organizational structure designed to position the Company to drive long-term growth by focusing talent and resources in the two core areas of systems and software. That organizational realignment has resulted in the creation of two new divisions, the Software Solutions Division and the Platform Systems Division. Today the Company issued a press release in which it announced the hiring of Robert Muglia as Executive Vice President of Software, leading the new Software Solutions Division. Mr. Muglia will report to Company CEO Kevin Johnson. A copy of the press release is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1. As Mr. Muglia joins the company to drive the Companys end-to-end software strategy, Stefan Dyckerhoff will continue in his role as EVP of the Platform Systems Division and drive Junipers end-to-end systems strategy. The Company will continue to report financial results under its existing segment structure through 2011 and anticipates realigning its reporting consistent with its new division structure beginning with 2012. In support of its division realignment, the Company is also making several executive assignments, effective immediately. Mark Bauhaus will assume the role of Executive Vice President of Services, Support and Operations. To better align field operations and strategic alliances, Gerri Elliott will assume the role of Executive Vice President and Chief Sales Officer and John Morris will assume the role of Executive Vice President of Strategic Alliances. Mike Rose will assume the role of Executive Vice President, Customer Executive Relationships. Executive Vice President and CFO Robyn Denholm will expand her responsibilities, managing IT and business enablement in addition to global finance, real estate, IR and IA. Executive Vice President Kim Perdikou will also expand her responsibilities to oversee customer quality and experience initiatives worldwide.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

David Shane Juniper Networks (408) 936-4872
Media Relations:
dshane@juniper.net
Cindy Ta Juniper Networks (408) 936-6131
cta@juniper.net
Kathleen Nemeth Juniper Networks (408) 936-5397
Investor Relations:
kbela@juniper.net
 Juniper Networks (NYSE: JNPR) today announced that Robert Muglia will be joining the company as executive vice president of the Software Solutions Division. In this newly created role, Muglia will oversee the company's end-to-end software strategy and lead the newly formed Software Solutions Division. He joins the company from Microsoft (NASDAQ: MSFT) and will report directly to Juniper CEO Kevin Johnson.
SUNNYVALE, Calif., July 25, 2011
By centralizing its software business under Muglia's leadership, Juniper is further sharpening its focus on systems and software as the two core engines of growth for the company. Juniper's software business is already a key differentiator for the company that drives customer adoption of solutions including industry leading Juniper Networks SRX Series and vGW Series security offerings, MobileNext core for mobile operators, the Junos Pulse mobile security suite for managing devices, and the Junos Space platform for developing and deploying network applications. The company plans to further accelerate this momentum as Muglia assumes his new role.
"We are excited to have a leader of Bob's caliber coming on board to lead Juniper's software initiatives, and I'm confident that his vision, management savvy and technical expertise will bring tremendous value to our organization," said Kevin Johnson, CEO of Juniper Networks. "As we continue to execute on our growth strategy centered on systems and software, we look forward to Bob playing a central role in extending our leadership position in network-powered software solutions."
Over the past 23 years, Muglia has served in leadership positions across all of Microsoft's business groups, including Developer, Office, Mobile Devices, Windows NT and Online Services. Most recently, Muglia served as president of Microsoft's $15 billion Server and Tools Business (STB), where he was responsible for infrastructure software, developer tools and cloud platforms, including products such as Windows Server, SQL Server, Visual Studio, System Center and the Windows Azure Platform. During his tenure leading STB, revenues increased by 50 percent.
"I have long respected Juniper for its disruptive approach to solving the toughest networking problems and for its networking vision that is simple, open and programmable," said Muglia. "I am thrilled to be joining Kevin and his team and look forward to contributing to the company's continued success and momentum in the marketplace."
About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that transform the experience and economics of networking. Additional information can be found at ().
Juniper Networks
www.juniper.net
Juniper Networks and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. The Juniper Networks, MobileNext and Junos logos are trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. All other trademarks, service marks, registered trademarks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners.


