FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20121023161157.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On October 17, 2012, Stefan Dyckerhoff, Executive Vice President, Platform Systems Division of Juniper Networks, Inc. (the "Company"), informed Company management that he plans to leave the Company and terminate his full-time employment as of December 31, 2012 to pursue a career as a venture capital financier. Mr. Dyckerhoff's decision to leave is not due to any disagreement with the Company on any matters relating to the Company's operations, policies or practices.
Beginning January 2, 2013, Mr. Dyckerhoff will serve as a consultant in the newly created role of Staff Consultant, reporting to CEO Kevin Johnson. In this role, he will advise and support on specific strategic and customer matters as requested by the CEO that may include: (i) engaging with customers and supporting the Juniper Executive Sponsor of specified customers, (ii) reviewing information and discussing various topics with Juniper executives relating to various product and industry strategic topics and (iii) engaging with the Platform Systems Division team on questions they have and supporting them in the transition. As annual compensation for this role, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has approved Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) having a value of $140,000 (the exact number of RSUs to be awarded will be based on the stock price approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors for use in determining Juniper's annual stock guidelines). The initial RSU award will be granted to Mr. Dyckerhoff at the same time as the Compensation Committee approves its annual equity compensation awards for executive officers, which is typically on the third Friday of February, and will vest on December 31, 2013 provided his service as Advisor to the CEO has continued through the period January 2, 2013 through December 31, 2013.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On October 23, 2012, the Company issued a press release in which the Company announced that Rami Rahim has been appointed as the Executive Vice President, Platform Systems Division to succeed Mr. Dyckerhoff. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Juniper Networks (NYSE: JNPR), the industry leader in network innovation, today announced the appointment of Rami Rahim as executive vice president of the Platform Systems Division. Rahim will succeed Stefan Dyckerhoff who will be transitioning to a new consulting role supporting CEO Kevin Johnson.
SUNNYVALE, Calif, Oct. 23, 2012
As executive vice president of the Platform Systems Division, Rahim will be responsible for driving strategy, development and business growth for Juniper's entire portfolio of routing, switching and fabric systems. Rahim is a 15-year veteran of the company and currently leads Juniper's largest business unit focused on edge and aggregation routing. The role is effective November 1, 2012 with Dyckerhoff supporting him through the end of the year when he transitions to his new consulting position.
After many years as a successful technology business executive, Dyckerhoff will be fulfilling a personal aspiration to become a venture capitalist. He will continue to be actively engaged in Juniper's business in the newly created role, Staff Consultant, supporting Johnson. In this role, Dyckerhoff will provide strategic counsel to the CEO and Juniper's leadership team and will continue working with key customers.
"Rami has been with Juniper since its earliest days and is a key architect of Juniper's successful routing business. His proven expertise in stewarding the development of our innovative portfolio ensures our continued leadership in routing and switching," said Kevin Johnson, CEO of Juniper Networks. "We are very pleased to have the powerful combination of Rami at the helm of our systems business, and Stefan continuing to contribute his knowledge of the industry and consult on technology direction."
About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that transform the experience and economics of networking. Additional information can be found at Juniper Networks () or connect with Juniper on and .
www.juniper.net
Twitter
Facebook
Juniper Networks is a registered trademark of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. The Juniper Networks logo is a trademark of Juniper Networks, Inc. All other trademarks, service marks, registered trademarks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners.


