FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20120424162300.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 24, 2012, Juniper Networks, Inc. ("we", "us" or "the Company") issued a press release in which we announced preliminary financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. Exhibit 99.1 shall not be treated as filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Other Items
The table contained in the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report includes the following non-GAAP financial measures from our Preliminary Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations: cost of product revenue; cost of service revenue; product gross margin, product gross margin as a percentage of product revenue; service gross margin; service gross margin as a percentage of service revenue; gross margin; gross margin as a percentage of revenue; research and development expense; sales and marketing expense; general and administrative expense; operating expense; operating income; operating margin; other income and expense, net; income before income taxes and noncontrolling interest; provision for income taxes; income tax rate; net income; net income per share and net income as a percentage of revenue. These measures are not presented in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP. In addition, these measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies, limiting their usefulness for comparison purposes. The non-GAAP financial measures used in the table should not be considered in isolation from measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Investors are cautioned that there are material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures as an analytical tool. In particular, many of the adjustments to our GAAP financial measures reflect the exclusion of items that are recurring and will be reflected in our financial results for the foreseeable future.
We utilize a number of different financial measures, both GAAP and non-GAAP, in analyzing and assessing the overall performance of our business, in making operating decisions, forecasting and planning for future periods, and determining payments under compensation programs. We consider the use of the non-GAAP measures presented above to be helpful in assessing the performance of the continuing operations of our business. By continuing operations we mean the ongoing revenue and expenses of the business, excluding certain items that render comparisons with prior periods or analysis of on-going operating trends more difficult, such as expenses not directly related to the actual cash costs of development, sale, delivery or support of our products and services, or expenses that are reflected in periods unrelated to when the actual amounts were incurred or paid. Consistent with this approach, we believe that disclosing non-GAAP financial measures to the readers of our financial statements provides such readers with useful supplemental data that, while not a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, allows for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance. In addition, we have historically reported non-GAAP results to the investment community and believe that continuing to provide non-GAAP measures provides investors with a tool for comparing results over time. In assessing the overall health of our business for the periods covered by the table and, in particular, in evaluating the financial line items presented in the table, we have excluded items in the following three general categories, each of which are described below: Acquisition-Related Charges, Other Items, and Share-Based Compensation Related Items. We also provide additional detail below regarding the shares used to calculate our non-GAAP net income per share. Notes identified for line items in the table correspond to the appropriate note description below. Additionally, with respect to future financial guidance provided on a non-GAAP basis, we have excluded estimates for amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation expenses, acquisition related charges, restructuring charges, impairment charges, litigation settlement charges, gain or loss on equity investments, non-recurring income tax adjustments, valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, and income tax effect of non-GAAP exclusions.
. We exclude certain expense items resulting from acquisitions including the following, when applicable: (i) amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions; (ii) compensation related to acquisitions; and (iii) acquisition-related charges. The amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions results in our recording expenses in our GAAP financial statements that were already expensed by the acquired company before the acquisition and for which we have not expended cash.
Note A: Acquisition-Related Charges
Moreover, had we internally developed the products acquired, the amortization of intangible assets, and the expenses of uncompleted research and development would have been expensed in prior periods. Accordingly, we analyze the performance of our operations in each period without regard to such expenses. In addition, acquisitions result in non-continuing operating expenses, which would not otherwise have been incurred by us in the normal course of our business operations. For example, we have incurred deferred compensation charges related to assumed options and transition and integration costs such as retention bonuses and acquisition-related milestone payments to acquired employees. We believe that providing non-GAAP information for acquisition-related expense items in addition to the corresponding GAAP information allows the users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historic and current results of our continuing operations, and also facilitates comparisons to less acquisitive peer companies.
. We exclude certain other items that are the result of either unique or unplanned events including the following, when applicable: (i) restructuring and related costs; (ii) impairment charges; (iii) gain or loss on legal settlement, net of related transaction costs; (iv) retroactive impacts of certain tax settlements; (v) significant effects of tax legislation and judicial or administrative interpretation of tax regulations; (vi) gain or loss on equity investments; and (vii) the income tax effect on our financial statements of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures. It is difficult to estimate the amount or timing of these items in advance. Restructuring and impairment charges result from events, which arise from unforeseen circumstances, which often occur outside of the ordinary course of continuing operations. Although these events are reflected in our GAAP financials, these unique transactions may limit the comparability of our on-going operations with prior and future periods. In the case of legal settlements, these gains or losses are recorded in the period in which the matter is concluded or resolved even though the subject matter of the underlying dispute may relate to multiple or different periods. As such, we believe that these expenses do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our continuing operations for the period in which they are incurred. Similarly, the retroactive impacts of certain tax settlements and significant effects of retroactive tax legislation are unique events that occur in periods that are generally unrelated to the level of business activity to which such settlement or legislation applies. We believe this limits comparability with prior periods and that these expenses do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our continuing business operations for the period in which they are incurred. Whether we realize gains or losses on equity investments is based primarily on the performance and market value of those independent companies. Accordingly, we believe that these gains and losses do not reflect the underlying performance of our continuing operations. We also believe providing financial information with and without the income tax effect of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures provide our management and users of the financial statements with better clarity regarding the on-going performance and future liquidity of our business. Because of these factors, we assess our operating performance both with these amounts included and excluded, and by providing this information, we believe the users of our financial statements are better able to understand the financial results of what we consider our continuing operations.
Note B: Other Items
. We provide non-GAAP information relative to our expense for share-based compensation and related payroll tax. We began to include share-based compensation expense in our GAAP financial measures in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 718, CompensationStock Compensation ("FASB ASC Topic 718"), in January 2006. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types, which affect the calculations of share-based compensation, we believe that the exclusion of share-based compensation allows for more accurate comparisons of our operating results to our peer companies. Share-based compensation is very different from other forms of compensation. A cash salary or bonus has a fixed and unvarying cash cost. For example, the expense associated with a $10,000 bonus is equal to exactly $10,000 in cash regardless of when it is awarded and who it is awarded by. In contrast, the expense associated with an award of an option for 1,000 shares of common stock is unrelated to the amount of compensation ultimately received by the employee; and the cost to the Company is based on a share-based compensation valuation methodology and underlying assumptions that may vary over time and that does not reflect any cash expenditure by the Company because no cash is expended. Furthermore, the expense associated with granting an employee an option is spread over multiple years unlike other compensation expenses which are more proximate to the time of award or payment. For example, we may be recognizing expense in a year where the stock option is significantly underwater and is not going to be exercised or generate any compensation for the employee. The expense associated with an award of an option for 1,000 shares of stock by us in one quarter may have a very different expense than an award of an identical number of shares in a different quarter. Finally, the expense recognized by us for such an option may be very different than
Note C: Share-Based Compensation Related Items
the expense to other companies for awarding a comparable option, which makes it difficult to assess our operating performance relative to our competitors. Similar to share-based compensation, payroll tax on stock option exercises is dependent on our stock price and the timing and exercise by employees of our share-based compensation, over which our management has little control, and as such does not correlate to the operation of our business. Because of these unique characteristics of share-based compensation and the related payroll tax, management excludes these expenses when analyzing the organization's business performance. We also believe that presentation of such non-GAAP information is important to enable readers of our financial statements to compare current period results with periods prior to the adoption of FASB ASC Topic 718.
. We provide basic non-GAAP net income per share and diluted non-GAAP net income per share. The basic non-GAAP net income per share amount was calculated based on our non-GAAP net income and the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the reporting period. The diluted non-GAAP income per share included additional dilution from potential issuance of common stock, except when such issuances would be anti-dilutive.
Note D: Non-GAAP Net Income Per Share Items
. GAAP and non-GAAP other (expense) income, net, consist primarily of interest income, interest expense and other non-operational income and expense items. As noted in Note B above, we exclude gains or losses from equity investments in our computation of non-GAAP other (expense) income.
Note E: Other Income and Expense
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Q1 Financial Highlights:
 
 
 
 
Juniper Networks (NYSE: JNPR), the industry leader in network innovation, today reported preliminary financial results for the three months ended March 31, 2012, which were above the Company's first quarter outlook. The Company also provided its outlook for the three months ending June 30, 2012.
SUNNYVALE, Calif., April 24, 2012
Net revenues for the first quarter of 2012 decreased 6% on a year-over-year basis, and decreased 8% sequentially, to $1,032.5 million.
The Company posted GAAP net income of $16.3 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, and non-GAAP net income of $84.0 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2012. Included in the GAAP diluted earnings per share was a $0.03 cent impact for charges associated with the write-down of an equity investment, restructuring, and other items.
"Our first quarter results reflect solid execution across Juniper," said Kevin Johnson, CEO of Juniper Networks. "We are pleased with initial customer response to our differentiated new products and solutions, which help form the broadest, most robust product portfolio in our Company's history. We are leveraging these innovations to accelerate traction in the marketplace as we continue to change the economics and experience of networking for our customers."
Juniper's GAAP operating margin for the first quarter of 2012 was 4.6% compared to 11.9% in the fourth quarter of 2011, and 16.1% in the prior year first quarter. Non-GAAP operating margin for the first quarter of 2012 was 12.0% compared to 18.6% in the fourth quarter of 2011, and 22.3% in the prior year first quarter.
"Juniper's results in the March quarter reflect our disciplined operational execution," said Robyn Denholm, CFO of Juniper Networks. "We are pleased with the early customer demand for our new products. We expect customers to continue to exercise care in their investment and project deployments near term. We are focused on executing to our strategy while prudently balancing both the long-term and the near-term needs of the business."
 
Other Financial Highlights
Total cash, cash equivalents and investments as of the first quarter of 2012 was $4,215.8 million, compared to $4,292.4 million as of the fourth quarter of 2011 and $4,083.5 million as of the first quarter of 2011.
Juniper generated net cash from operations in the first quarter of 2012 of $102.3 million, compared to net cash provided by operations of $243.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, and $239.7 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Days sales outstanding in accounts receivable ("DSO") was 39 days in the first quarter of 2012, compared to 46 days in the prior quarter and 38 days in the first quarter of 2011.
For the three months ended March 31, 2012, Juniper repurchased 2.4 million shares, at an average share price of $21.75 per share, for a total of $51.6 million, which largely offset stock issued through our employee equity programs.
Capital expenditures, as well as depreciation and amortization of intangible assets expense during the first quarter of 2012, were $82.0 million and $43.4 million, respectively.
Outlook
Looking ahead, we will manage the business assuming the near-term environment requires continued caution. We will remain focused on executing our strategy while maintaining a balanced approach for both the long and near term.
 
 
 
 
 
All forward-looking non-GAAP measures exclude estimates for amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation expenses, acquisition related charges, restructuring charges, impairment charges, litigation settlement charges, gain or loss on equity investments, non-recurring income tax adjustments, valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, and income tax effect of non-GAAP exclusions. A reconciliation of non-GAAP guidance measures to corresponding GAAP measures is not available on a forward-looking basis.
Change in Segment Reporting
Beginning with our results for the first quarter of 2012, Juniper is aligning the financial reporting of our business segments to the Company's current organizational structure and the Company's focus on our platform and software strategy. Juniper will continue to report its business in two segments, and we will continue to provide revenue by segment, with product details for routing, switching, and security/other as well as services. Juniper will also continue to provide revenue details by geographic region and by market, and the historical amounts for these categorizations have not changed.
 
In addition to improved operational accountability and management, we believe the change will provide investors with increased financial reporting transparency, as the changes in segment reporting will enable better insight into the market and performance trends driving the Company's business. The two reportable segments are the Platforms Systems Division, or PSD, and the Software Solutions Division, or SSD. A summary showing PSD and SSD 2011 and 2010 quarterly revenues on a basis consistent with our new reporting structure is included in Appendix 1.
Juniper's PSD segment primarily offers scalable routing and switching products that are used in service provider, enterprise, and public sector networks to control and direct network traffic from data centers, core, edge, aggregation, campus, WANs, branch, and customer premise equipment level. Our SSD segment offers solutions that meet a broad array of our customers' priorities, from protecting the users, applications and data on the network to providing network services across a distributed infrastructure.
The PSD segment aligns primarily with the Infrastructure segment as previously reported. However, the PSD segment includes revenues from certain security-related products, such as our branch SRX, branch firewall, and J Series products, which Juniper historically reported in our Services Layer Technologies (SLT) segment. In addition, the PSD segment excludes revenues from other software and services-related products, including Routing Services Software and Mobile Applications (such as MobileNext), which Juniper previously reported in our Infrastructure segment, but which are now reflected in the new SSD segment.
Our PSD segment consists of routing, switching, and security/other products and services. Routing includes products and services from the E, M, MX, PTX, T Series, and ACX (shipping in H2 2012) router families. Switching primarily consists of products and services for EX Series and wireless local area network solutions, as well as QFabric. Security/other includes products and services from the branch SRX, branch firewall, and J-Series product families, as well as the network application platform, Junos Space.
Juniper's new SSD segment aligns primarily with the SLT segment as previously reported. However, the SSD segment also includes revenues from other software and services-related products which were previously reported in the Infrastructure segment, including Routing Services Software and Mobile Applications (such as MobileNext). It also excludes the revenues from certain security-related products, such as the branch SRX, branch firewall, and J Series product families, as well as the network application platform, Junos Space, which are now reflected in the new PSD segment.
The SSD segment primarily consists of security/other and routing products and services. Security/other includes High-End SRX services and vGW Virtual Gateways, High-End Firewall virtual private network systems and appliances, secure socket layer virtual private network appliances, intrusion detection and prevention appliances, wide area network optimization platforms, and Junos Pulse. Routing primarily consists of Routing Services Software and Mobile Applications (such as MobileNext).
A table showing revenue by product type within each segment is provided as Appendix 2.
A table showing product detail by business segment is provided as Appendix 3
Under our new reporting structure, segment profitability will be measured by "Contribution Margin," which will reflect segment revenues less those expenses which are directly attributable to (and controlled by) the segment organization. Such expenses would typically include costs of revenue, R&D, direct product marketing, and product lifecycle management. A summary showing 2011 and 2010 segment contribution margins on a basis consistent with our new reporting structure is included in Appendix 4.
Under our new segment reporting structure, there also will be amounts which are not allocated to the segments. These "Corporate Unallocated" amounts represent capabilities that are shared by the segments and managed separately at the corporate level. Corporate Unallocated expenses would typically include costs for global functions such as Sales, Corporate Marketing & Communications, Finance, HR, and the CTO organization. A summary showing 2011 and 2010 Corporate Unallocated amounts on a basis consistent with our new reporting structure is included in Appendix 5.
 
Conference Call Web Cast
Juniper Networks will host a conference call web cast today, April 24, 2012, at 2:00 p.m. (Pacific Time), to be broadcast live over the Internet at: .
http://www.juniper.net/company/investor/conferencecall.html
To participate via telephone, in the U.S. the toll free dial-in number is 877-407-8033; outside of the U.S. dial +1-201-689-8033. Please call ten minutes prior to the scheduled conference call time. The web cast replay of the conference call will be archived on the Juniper Networks website.
About Juniper Networks
Juniper Networks is in the business of network innovation. From devices to data centers, from consumers to cloud providers, Juniper Networks delivers the software, silicon and systems that transform the experience and economics of networking. Additional information can be found at ().
Juniper Networks
www.juniper.net
Juniper Networks and Junos are registered trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. in the United States and other countries. The Juniper Networks and Junos logos and QFabric are trademarks of Juniper Networks, Inc. All other trademarks, service marks, registered trademarks, or registered service marks are the property of their respective owners.
Statements in this release concerning Juniper Networks' business outlook, economic and market outlook, future financial and operating results, and overall future prospects are forward-looking statements that involve a number of uncertainties and risks. Actual results or events could differ materially from those anticipated in those forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including: general economic conditions globally or regionally; business and economic conditions in the networking industry; changes in overall technology spending and spending by communication service providers; the network capacity requirements of communication service providers; contractual terms that may result in the deferral of revenue; increases in and the effect of competition; the timing of orders and their fulfillment; manufacturing and supply chain constraints; ability to establish and maintain relationships with distributors, resellers and other partners; variations in the expected mix of products sold; changes in customer mix; changes in geography mix; customer and industry analyst perceptions of Juniper Networks and its technology, products and future prospects; delays in scheduled product availability; market acceptance of Juniper Networks products and services; rapid technological and market change; adoption of regulations or standards affecting Juniper Networks products, services or the networking industry; the ability to successfully acquire, integrate and manage businesses and technologies; product defects, returns or vulnerabilities; the ability to recruit and retain key personnel; significant effects of tax legislation and judicial or administrative interpretation of tax regulations; currency fluctuations; litigation; and other factors listed in Juniper Networks' most recent report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All statements made in this press release are made only as of the date set forth at the beginning of this release. Juniper Networks undertakes no obligation to update the information in this release in the event facts or circumstances subsequently change after the date of this press release.
Juniper Networks believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial information provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to the Company's financial condition and results of operations. For further information regarding why Juniper Networks believes that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors, the specific manner in which management uses these measures, and some of the limitations associated with the use of these measures, please refer to the discussion below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The table above includes the following non-GAAP financial measures derived from our Preliminary Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations: cost of product revenue; cost of service revenue; product gross margin; product gross margin as a percentage of product revenue; service gross margin; service gross margin as a percentage of service revenue; gross margin; gross margin as a percentage of revenue; research and development expense; sales and marketing expense; general and administrative expense; operating expense; operating income; operating margin; other income and expense, net; income before income taxes and noncontrolling interest; provision for income taxes; income tax rate; net income; net income per share and net income as a percentage of revenue. These measures are not presented in accordance with, nor are they a substitute for U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or GAAP. In addition, these measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies, limiting their usefulness for comparison purposes. The non-GAAP financial measures used in the table above should not be considered in isolation from measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Investors are cautioned that there are material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures as an analytical tool. In particular, many of the adjustments to our GAAP financial measures reflect the exclusion of items that are recurring and will be reflected in our financial results for the foreseeable future.
We utilize a number of different financial measures, both GAAP and non-GAAP, in analyzing and assessing the overall performance of our business, in making operating decisions, forecasting and planning for future periods, and determining payments under compensation programs. We consider the use of the non-GAAP measures presented above to be helpful in assessing the performance of the continuing operation of our business. By continuing operations we mean the ongoing revenue and expenses of the business excluding certain items that render comparisons with prior periods or analysis of on-going operating trends more difficult, such as expenses not directly related to the actual cash costs of development, sale, delivery or support of our products and services, or expenses that are reflected in periods unrelated to when the actual amounts were incurred or paid. Consistent with this approach, we believe that disclosing non-GAAP financial measures to the readers of our financial statements provides such readers with useful supplemental data that, while not a substitute for financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, allows for greater transparency in the review of our financial and operational performance. In addition, we have historically reported non-GAAP results to the investment community and believe that continuing to provide non-GAAP measures provides investors with a tool for comparing results over time. In assessing the overall health of our business for the periods covered by the table above and, in particular, in evaluating the financial line items presented in the table above, we have excluded items in the following three general categories, each of which are described below: Acquisition-Related Charges, Other Items, and Share-Based Compensation Related Items. We also provide additional detail below regarding the shares used to calculate our non-GAAP net income per share. Notes identified for line items in the table above correspond to the appropriate note description below. Additionally, with respect to future financial guidance provided on a non-GAAP basis, we have excluded estimates for amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation expenses, acquisition related charges, restructuring charges, impairment charges, litigation settlement charges, gain or loss on equity investments, non-recurring income tax adjustments, valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, and income tax effect of non-GAAP exclusions.
. We exclude certain expense items resulting from acquisitions including the following, when applicable: (i) amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions; (ii) compensation related to acquisitions; and (iii) acquisition-related charges. The amortization of purchased intangible assets associated with our acquisitions results in our recording expenses in our GAAP financial statements that were already expensed by the acquired company before the acquisition and for which we have not expended cash. Moreover, had we internally developed the products acquired, the amortization of intangible assets, and the expenses of uncompleted research and development would have been expensed in prior periods. Accordingly, we analyze the performance of our operations in each period without regard to such expenses. In addition, acquisitions result in non-continuing operating expenses, which would not otherwise have been incurred by us in the normal course of our business operations. For example, we have incurred deferred compensation charges related to assumed options and transition and integration costs such as retention bonuses and acquisition-related milestone payments to acquired employees. We believe that providing non-GAAP information for acquisition-related expense items in addition to the corresponding GAAP information allows the users of our financial statements to better review and understand the historic and current results of our continuing operations, and also facilitates comparisons to less acquisitive peer companies.
Note A: Acquisition-Related Charges
. We exclude certain other items that are the result of either unique or unplanned events including the following, when applicable: (i) restructuring and related costs; (ii) impairment charges; (iii) gain or loss on legal settlement, net of related transaction costs; (iv) retroactive impacts of certain tax settlements; (v) significant effects of tax legislation and judicial or administrative interpretation of tax regulations; (vi) gain or loss on equity investments; and (vii) the income tax effect on our financial statements of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures. It is difficult to estimate the amount or timing of these items in advance. Restructuring and impairment charges result from events, which arise from unforeseen circumstances, which often occur outside of the ordinary course of continuing operations. Although these events are reflected in our GAAP financials, these unique transactions may limit the comparability of our on-going operations with prior and future periods. In the case of legal settlements, these gains or losses are recorded in the period in which the matter is concluded or resolved even though the subject matter of the underlying dispute may relate to multiple or different periods. As such, we believe that these expenses do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our continuing operations for the period in which they are incurred. Similarly, the retroactive impacts of certain tax settlements and significant effects of retroactive tax legislation are unique events that occur in periods that are generally unrelated to the level of business activity to which such settlement or legislation applies. We believe this limits comparability with prior periods and that these expenses do not accurately reflect the underlying performance of our continuing business operations for the period in which they are incurred. Whether we realize gains or losses on equity investments is based primarily on the performance and market value of those independent companies. Accordingly, we believe that these gains and losses do not reflect the underlying performance of our continuing operations. We also believe providing financial information with and without the income tax effect of excluding items related to our non-GAAP financial measures provide our management and users of the financial statements with better clarity regarding the on-going performance and future liquidity of our business. Because of these factors, we assess our operating performance both with these amounts included and excluded, and by providing this information, we believe the users of our financial statements are better able to understand the financial results of what we consider our continuing operations.
Note B: Other Items
 
. We provide non-GAAP information relative to our expense for share-based compensation and related payroll tax. We began to include share-based compensation expense in our GAAP financial measures in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Topic 718, CompensationStock Compensation ("FASB ASC Topic 718"), in January 2006. Because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types, which affect the calculations of share-based compensation, we believe that the exclusion of share-based compensation allows for more accurate comparisons of our operating results to our peer companies. Share-based compensation is very different from other forms of compensation. A cash salary or bonus has a fixed and unvarying cash cost. For example, the expense associated with a $10,000 bonus is equal to exactly $10,000 in cash regardless of when it is awarded and who it is awarded by. In contrast, the expense associated with an award of an option for 1,000 shares of common stock is unrelated to the amount of compensation ultimately received by the employee; and the cost to the Company is based on a share-based compensation valuation methodology and underlying assumptions that may vary over time and that does not reflect any cash expenditure by the Company because no cash is expended. Furthermore, the expense associated with granting an employee an option is spread over multiple years unlike other compensation expenses which are more proximate to the time of award or payment. For example, we may be recognizing expense in a year where the stock option is significantly underwater and is not going to be exercised or generate any compensation for the employee. The expense associated with an award of an option for 1,000 shares of stock by us in one quarter may have a very different expense than an award of an identical number of shares in a different quarter. Finally, the expense recognized by us for such an option may be very different than the expense to other companies for awarding a comparable option, which makes it difficult to assess our operating performance relative to our competitors. Similar to share-based compensation, payroll tax on stock option exercises is dependent on our stock price and the timing and exercise by employees of our share-based compensation, over which our management has little control, and as such does not correlate to the operation of our business. Because of these unique characteristics of share-based compensation and the related payroll tax, management excludes these expenses when analyzing the organization's business performance. We also believe that presentation of such non-GAAP information is important to enable readers of our financial statements to compare current period results with periods prior to the adoption of FASB ASC Topic 718.
Note C: Share-Based Compensation Related Items
We provide basic non-GAAP net income per share and diluted non-GAAP net income per share. The basic non-GAAP net income per share amount was calculated based on our non-GAAP net income and the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the reporting period. The diluted non-GAAP income per share included additional dilution from potential issuance of common stock, except when such issuances would be anti-dilutive.
Note D: Non-GAAP Net Income Per Share Items.
GAAP and non-GAAP other (expense) income, net, consist primarily of interest income, interest expense and other non-operational income and expense items. As indicated in Note B above, we exclude gains or losses from equity investments in our computation of non-GAAP other (expense) income.
Note E: Other Income and Expense.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


