FILE:JNPR/JNPR-8K-20120524151447.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) As reported below in Item 5.07, on May 22, 2012, Juniper Networks, Inc. (the "Company") held its annual meeting of stockholders, at which the Companys stockholders approved an amendment to the Juniper Networks, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Amended Equity Plan") to increase the number of shares of common stock reserved under the plan for future issuance by twenty-five million (25,000,000) shares. In addition, the Companys stockholders approved an amendment to the Juniper Networks, Inc. 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Amended ESPP") to increase the maximum number of shares of common stock available for sale under the ESPP by seven million (7,000,000) shares. The Amended Equity Plan and the Amended ESPP (i) were approved by the Companys Board of Directors (the "Board") on March 19, 2012, subject to approval by the Companys stockholders at the Companys 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, and (ii) became effective with such stockholder approval on May 22, 2012. The Companys executive officers are eligible to participate in the Amended Equity Plan and the Amended ESPP. The above descriptions of the Amended Equity Plan and the Amended ESPP do not purport to be complete, and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the Amended Equity Plan and the Amended ESPP, respectively, which are filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
As reported below in Item 5.07, at the Companys annual meeting of stockholders, the Companys stockholders approved the Companys Certificate of Amendment of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate") to declassify the Board. The Certificate was approved by the Board on February 14, 2012, subject to approval by the Companys stockholders. The Certificate was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 23, 2012, becoming effective on such date. The above description of the Certificate does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Certificate, which is filed as Exhibit 3.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. In addition, as reported in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 21, 2012 (the "Prior 8-K"), in connection with the proposed declassification of the Board, subject to and effective upon the approval of the Certificate by the stockholders, the Board amended Sections 3.3 and 3.4 of the Bylaws of the Company (the "Bylaws"). As reported below in Item 5.07, the Companys stockholders approved the Certificate to declassify the Board, and accordingly, the amendments to Section 3.3 and 3.4 of the Bylaws, which were approved and adopted by the Board on February 14, 2012, as specified in the Prior 8-K became effective as of May 22, 2012. The above description of the Bylaws does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Bylaws, which are filed as Exhibit 3.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
(a) - (b) As described in Items 5.02 and 5.03 above, the Company held its annual meeting of stockholders on May 22, 2012, at which the Companys stockholders voted upon the following proposals described in the Companys 2012 proxy statement, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 11, 2012: (1) to elect Scott Kriens, William R. Stensrud and Mercedes Johnson to serve as Class I directors for a term of three years; (2) to ratify the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys independent auditors for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012; (3) to approve an amendment to the Juniper Networks, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan that increases the number of shares reserved for issuance thereunder by twenty-five million (25,000,000) shares; (4) to approve an amendment to the Juniper Networks, Inc. 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan that increases the maximum number of shares available for sale thereunder by seven million (7,000,000); (5) to amend the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Juniper Networks, Inc. to declassify the Board; and (6) to hold a non-binding advisory vote regarding executive compensation. All nominated directors were elected, and the other proposals were approved by the required stockholder vote. The final number of shares voted with respect to each proposal is as set forth below. (1) Proposal for election of Class I directors*: Scott Kriens For: 416,990,777; Withheld: 13,184,898 William R. Stensrud For: 408,226,427; Withheld: 21,949,248 Mercedes Johnson For: 422,760,372; Withheld: 7,415,303 *results exclude 35,944,168 broker non-votes (2) Proposal to ratify Ernst & Young LLP as auditors for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012: For: 456,855,434; Against: 8,924,414; Abstain: 339,995 (3) Proposal to approve an amendment to the Juniper Networks, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan that increases the number of shares reserved for issuance thereunder by twenty-five million (25,000,000) shares*: For: 249,083,169; Against: 180,229,150; Abstain: 863,356 *results exclude 35,944,168 broker non-votes (4) Proposal to approve an amendment to the Juniper Networks, Inc. 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan that increases the maximum number of shares available for sale thereunder by seven million (7,000,000)*: For: 420,890,815; Against: 9,100,748; Abstain: 184,112 *results exclude 35,944,168 broker non-votes (5) Proposal to amend the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Juniper Networks, Inc. to declassify the Board *: For: 428,533,811; Against: 1,302,521; Abstain: 339,343 *results exclude 35,944,168 broker non-votes (6) Proposal to approve a non-binding advisory resolution on the compensation of the named executive officers of the Company*: For: 287,202,088; Against: 142,558,695; Abstain: 414,892 *results exclude 35,944,168 broker non-votes
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. Exhibit No. Description 3.1 Certificate of Amendment of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Juniper Networks, Inc. 3.2 Amended and Restated Bylaws of Juniper Networks, Inc. 10.1 Juniper Networks, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended++ 10.2 Juniper Networks, Inc. 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended++ ++ Indicates management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 3.1
Juniper Networks, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:
FIRST: The name of the corporation is Juniper Networks, Inc. The corporation was originally incorporated under the same name and the original Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on September 10, 1997.
SECOND: Pursuant to Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, this Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation amends the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation.
THIRD: The terms and provisions of this Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation have been duly adopted in accordance with Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware by the Board of Directors and the stockholders of the corporation.
FOURTH: ARTICLE SEVENTH of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
The management of the business and the conduct of the affairs of the Corporation shall be vested in its Board of Directors. The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be designated in the Bylaws of the Corporation.
Each director shall be elected to hold office for a one-year term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, no terms in effect prior to the effective date of this amendment shall be shortened.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, (i) at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected to hold office for a one-year term expiring at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, (ii) at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected to hold office for a one-year term expiring at the 2015 annual meeting of stockholders, and (iii) at the 2015 annual meeting of stockholders and each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected to hold office for a one-year term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article, each director shall serve until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified or until his or her death, resignation, or removal. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal, or other causes shall be filled by either (i) the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then-outstanding shares of voting stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock") voting together as a single class; or (ii) by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors shall, unless the Board of Directors determines by resolution that any such newly created directorship shall be filled by the stockholders, be filled only by the affirmative vote of the directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the new directorship was created or the vacancy occurred and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified.
The affirmative vote of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required for the adoption, amendment or repeal of the following sections of the Corporation's Bylaws by the stockholders of the Corporation: 2.2 (Annual Meeting) and 2.3 (Special Meeting).
No action shall be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation except at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders called in accordance with the Bylaws.
Any director, or the entire Board of Directors, may be removed from office at any time (i) with cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock, voting together as a single class; or (ii) without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66-2/3%) of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the Voting Stock.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment of Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be executed by the undersigned duly authorized officer, effective as of May 22, 2012.
JUNIPER NETWORKS, INC.
By: Kevin Johnson Chief Executive Officer
/s/ Kevin Jonson
      

EXHIBIT 3.2
1.1 REGISTERED OFFICE
The registered office of the Corporation shall be 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware, 19801. The name of the registered agent of the Corporation at such location is The Corporation Trust Company.
1.2 OTHER OFFICES
The board of directors may at any time establish other offices at any place or places where the Corporation is qualified to do business.
2.1 PLACE OF MEETINGS
Meetings of stockholders shall be held at any place, within or outside the State of Delaware, designated by the board of directors. In the absence of any such designation, stockholders' meetings shall be held at the registered office of the Corporation. The board of directors may, in its sole discretion, determine that a meeting of stockholders shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communication as authorized by Section 211(a)(2) of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
2.2 ANNUAL MEETING
The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held each year on a date and at a time designated by the board of directors. At the meeting, directors shall be elected and any other proper business may be transacted.
2.3 SPECIAL MEETING
A special meeting of the stockholders may be called at any time by the (i) board of directors acting pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board, (ii) the chairman of the board, (iii) the president, or (iv) the chief executive officer, but a special meeting may not be called by any other person or persons. For purposes of these bylaws, the term "Whole Board" shall mean the total number of authorized directors whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships. The board of directors, acting pursuant to a resolution adopted by the majority of the Whole Board, may cancel, postpone or reschedule any previously scheduled special meeting at any time, before or after the notice for such meeting has been sent to the stockholders.
If a special meeting is called by any person other than the board of directors, the request shall be in writing, specifying the time of such meeting and the general nature of the business proposed to be transacted, and shall be delivered personally or sent by registered mail or by telegraphic or other facsimile transmission to the chairman of the board, the president, any vice president, or the secretary of the corporation. No business may be transacted at such special meeting otherwise than specified in such notice. The officer receiving the request shall cause notice to be promptly given to the stockholders entitled to vote, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.4 and 2.5 of this Article II, that a meeting will be held at the time requested by the person or persons who called the meeting, not less than thirty-five (35) nor more than sixty (60) days after the receipt of the request. If the notice is not given within twenty (20) days after the receipt of the request, the person or persons requesting the meeting may give the notice. Nothing contained in this paragraph of this Section 2.3 shall be construed as limiting, fixing, or affecting the time when a meeting of stockholders called by action of the board of directors may be held.
2.4 NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS
All notices of meetings with stockholders shall be in writing and shall be sent or otherwise given in accordance with Section 2.6 of these Bylaws not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. The notice shall specify the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.
2.5 ADVANCE NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDER BUSINESS AND DIRECTOR NOMINATIONS BY STOCKHOLDERS
(i) At an annual meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting business must brought: (A) pursuant to the Corporation's proxy materials with respect to such meeting, (B) by or at the direction of the board of directors, or (C) by a stockholder of the Corporation who (1) is a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice required by this Section 2.5(i) and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the annual meeting and (2) has timely complied in proper written form with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.5(i). In addition, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action pursuant to these bylaws and applicable law. For the avoidance of doubt, clause (C) above shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to bring business before an annual meeting of stockholders.
(a) To comply with clause (C) of Section 2.5(i) above, a stockholder's notice must set forth all information required under this Section 2.5(i) and must be timely received by the secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be received by the secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the 45th day nor earlier than the 75th day before the one-year anniversary of the date on which the Corporation first mailed its proxy materials or a notice of availability of proxy materials (whichever is earlier) for the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or if the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than 30 days prior to or delayed by more than 60 days after the one-year anniversary of the date of the previous year's annual meeting, then, for notice by the stockholder to be timely, it must be so received by the secretary not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the 90th day prior to such annual meeting, or (ii) the tenth day following the day on which Public Announcement (as defined below) of the date of such annual meeting is first made. In no event shall any adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting or the announcement thereof commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described in this Section 2.5(i)(a). "Public Announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release released on Business Wire and/or reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news and/or wire service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor thereto (the "1934 Act").
provided
however
(b) To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the secretary must set forth as to each matter of business the stockholder intends to bring before the annual meeting: (1) a brief description of the business intended to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (2) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the stockholder proposing such business and any Stockholder Associated Person (as defined below), (3) the class and number of shares of the Corporation that are held of record or are beneficially owned by the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person and any derivative positions held or beneficially held by the stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person, (4) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to any securities of the Corporation, and a description of any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares), the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, or to manage the risk or benefit from share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person with respect to any securities of the Corporation, (5) any material interest of the stockholder or a Stockholder Associated Person in such business, and (6) a statement whether either such stockholder or any Stockholder Associated Person will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's voting shares required under applicable law to carry the proposal (such information provided and statements made as required by clauses (1) through (6), a "Business Solicitation Statement"). In addition, to be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the secretary must be supplemented not later than ten days following the record date to disclose the information contained in clauses (3) and (4) above as of the record date. For purposes of this Section 2.5, a "Stockholder Associated Person" of any stockholder shall mean (i) any person controlling, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with, such stockholder, (ii) any beneficial owner of shares of stock of the Corporation owned of record or beneficially by such stockholder and on whose behalf the proposal or nomination, as the case may be, is being made, or (iii) any person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such person referred to in the preceding clauses (i) and (ii).
(c) Without exception, no business shall be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 2.5(i) and, if applicable, Section 2.5(ii). In addition, business proposed to be brought by a stockholder may not be brought before the annual meeting if such stockholder or a Stockholder Associated Person, as applicable, takes action contrary to the representations made in the Business Solicitation Statement applicable to such business or if the Business Solicitation Statement applicable to such business contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The chairperson of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the annual meeting that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.5(i), and, if the chairperson should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the annual meeting that any such business not properly brought before the annual meeting shall not be conducted.
(ii) Notwithstanding anything in these bylaws to the contrary, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.5(ii) shall be eligible for election or re-election as directors at an annual meeting of stockholders. Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors of the Corporation shall be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (A) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (B) by a stockholder of the Corporation who (1) was a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice required by this Section 2.5(ii) and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the annual meeting and (2) has complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.5(ii). In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the secretary of the Corporation.
(a) To comply with clause (B) of Section 2.5(ii) above, a nomination to be made by a stockholder must set forth all information required under this Section 2.5(ii) and must be received by the secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation at the time set forth in, and in accordance with, the final three sentences of Section 2.5(i)(a) above.
(b) To be in proper written form, such stockholder's notice to the secretary must set forth:
(1) as to each person (a "nominee") whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director: (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of the nominee, (B) the principal occupation or employment of the nominee, (C) the class and number of shares of the Corporation that are held of record or are beneficially owned by the nominee and any derivative positions held or beneficially held by the nominee, (D) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of the nominee with respect to any securities of the Corporation, and a description of any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares), the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, or to manage the risk or benefit of share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of the nominee, (E) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nominations are to be made by the stockholder, (F) a written statement executed by the nominee acknowledging that as a director of the Corporation, the nominee will owe a fiduciary duty under Delaware law with respect to the Corporation and its stockholders, and (G) any other information relating to the nominee that would be required to be disclosed about such nominee if proxies were being solicited for the election of the nominee as a director, or that is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the 1934 Act (including without limitation the nominee's written consent to being named in the proxy statement, if any, as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and
(2) as to such stockholder giving notice, (A) the information required to be provided pursuant to clauses (2) through (5) of Section 2.5(i)(b) above, and the supplement referenced in the second sentence of Section 2.5(i)(b) above (except that the references to "business" in such clauses shall instead refer to nominations of directors for purposes of this paragraph), and (B) a statement whether either such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to holders of a number of the Corporation's voting shares reasonably believed by such stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person to be necessary to elect such nominee(s) (such information provided and statements made as required by clauses (A) and (B) above, a "Nominee Solicitation Statement").
(c) At the request of the board of directors, any person nominated by a stockholder for election as a director must furnish to the secretary of the Corporation (1) that information required to be set forth in the stockholder's notice of nomination of such person as a director as of a date subsequent to the date on which the notice of such person's nomination was given and (2) such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee; in the absence of the furnishing of such information if requested, such stockholder's nomination shall not be considered in proper form pursuant to this Section 2.5(ii).
(d) Without exception, no person shall be eligible for election or re-election as a director of the Corporation at an annual meeting of stockholders unless nominated in accordance with the provisions set forth in this Section 2.5(ii). In addition, a nominee shall not be eligible for election or re-election if a stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, as applicable, takes action contrary to the representations made in the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee or if the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. The chairperson of the annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the annual meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the provisions prescribed by these bylaws, and if the chairperson should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the annual meeting, and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
(iii) Advance Notice of Director Nominations for Special Meetings.
(a) For a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to Section 2.3, nominations of persons for election to the board of directors shall be made only (1) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (2) by any stockholder of the Corporation who (A) is a stockholder of record at the time of the giving of the notice required by this Section 2.5(iii) and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the special meeting and (B) delivers a timely written notice of the nomination to the secretary of the Corporation that includes the information set forth in Sections 2.5(ii)(b) and (ii)(c) above. To be timely, such notice must be received by the secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which Public Announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the board of directors to be elected at such meeting. A person shall not be eligible for election or re-election as a director at a special meeting unless the person is nominated (i) by or at the direction of the board of directors or (ii) by a stockholder in accordance with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.5(iii). In addition, a nominee shall not be eligible for election or re-election if a stockholder or Stockholder Associated Person, as applicable, takes action contrary to the representations made in the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee or if the Nominee Solicitation Statement applicable to such nominee contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
(b) The chairperson of the special meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare at the meeting that a nomination or business was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these bylaws, and if the chairperson should so determine, he or she shall so declare at the meeting, and the defective nomination or business shall be disregarded.
(iv) Other Requirements and Rights.
In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.5, a stockholder must also comply with all applicable requirements of state law and of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.5. Nothing in this Section 2.5 shall be deemed to affect any right of the Corporation to omit a proposal from the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 (or any successor provision) under the 1934 Act and nothing in this Section 2.5 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.
2.6 MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE; AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE
Written notice of any meeting of stockholders, if mailed, is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. An affidavit of the secretary or an assistant secretary or of the transfer agent of the Corporation that the notice has been given shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
2.7 QUORUM
The holders of a majority of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business except as otherwise provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation. If, however, such quorum is not present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, then either (i) the chairman of the meeting, or (ii) the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present or represented, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed.
When a quorum is present or represented at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock having voting power present in person or represented by proxy shall decide any question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which, by express provisions of the statutes, the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, the applicable stock exchange or the rules of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of the question.
2.8 ADJOURNED MEETING; NOTICE
When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, unless these Bylaws otherwise require, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the Corporation may transact any business that might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
2.9 VOTING
The stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.12 and 2.14 of these Bylaws, subject to the provisions of Sections 217 and 218 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware (relating to voting rights of fiduciaries, pledgors and joint owners of stock and to voting trusts and other voting agreements).
Except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for each share of capital stock held by such stockholder.
2.10 WAIVER OF NOTICE
Whenever notice is required to be given under any provision of the General Corporation Law of Delaware or of the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
2.11 STOCKHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Notwithstanding the following provisions of this Section 2.11, effective upon the listing of the Common Stock of the Corporation on the Nasdaq Stock Market and the registration of any class of securities of the Corporation pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the stockholders of the Corporation may not take action by written consent without a meeting but must take any such actions at a duly called annual or special meeting.
Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2.11, any action required by this chapter to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of a Corporation, or any action that may be taken at any annual or special meeting of such stockholders, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice, and without a vote if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, is signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.
Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing. If the action which is consented to is such as would have required the filing of a certificate under any section of the General Corporation Law of Delaware if such action had been voted on by stockholders at a meeting thereof, then the certificate filed under such section shall state, in lieu of any statement required by such section concerning any vote of stockholders, that written notice and written consent have been given as provided in Section 228 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
2.12 RECORD DATE FOR STOCKHOLDER NOTICE; VOTING; GIVING CONSENTS
In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action.
If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, the fixing of such record date shall be governed by the provisions of Section 213 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the board of directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
2.13 PROXIES
Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or to express consent or dissent to corporate action in writing without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for him by a written proxy, signed by the stockholder and filed with the secretary of the Corporation, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after 3 years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A proxy shall be deemed signed if the stockholder's name is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature, typewriting, telegraphic transmission or otherwise) by the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney-in-fact. The revocability of a proxy that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be governed by the provisions of Section 212(c) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
2.14 LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS ENTITLED TO VOTE
The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of a Corporation shall prepare and make, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The stock ledger shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list of stockholders or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders and of the number of shares held by each such stockholder.
2.15 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS
Meetings of stockholders shall be presided over by the chairman of the board, if any, or in his absence by the president, or in his absence by a vice president, or in the absence of the foregoing persons by a chairman designated by the board of directors, or in the absence of such designation by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in his absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting. The chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall determine the order of business and the procedures at the meeting, including such matters as the regulation of the manner of voting and conduct of business.
3.1 POWERS
Subject to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware and any limitations in the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws relating to action required to be approved by the stockholders or by the outstanding shares, the business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the board of directors.
3.2 NUMBER AND ELECTION
The authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall be ten (10). No reduction of the authorized number of directors shall have the effect of removing any director before that director's term of office expires.
Effective as of the first meeting of stockholders at which the directors will be elected following the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to the nominee at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast on the election of directors at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders and at any meeting for which (i) the Secretary receives a notice of a stockholder's intention to nominate a person or persons for election to the board of directors in compliance with the advance notice provisions of Section 2.5 of these Bylaws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or before the fourteenth (14th) day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting of stockholders. For purposes of this Section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of votes cast "against" that director.
3.3 CLASSES OF DIRECTORS
Each director shall be elected to hold office for a one-year term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, no terms in effect prior to the effective date of this amendment shall be shortened.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock then outstanding, (i) at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected to hold office for a one-year term expiring at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, (ii) at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected to hold office for a one-year term expiring at the 2015 annual meeting of stockholders, and (iii) at the 2015 annual meeting of stockholders and each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected to hold office for one-year terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article, each director shall serve until his successor is duly elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
3.4 RESIGNATION AND VACANCIES
Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation. Stockholders may remove directors with or without cause. Any vacancy occurring in the board of directors with or without cause may be filled by (i) a majority of the remaining members of the board of directors, although such majority is less than a quorum, or (ii) the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the then-outstanding shares of voting stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors voting together as a single class, and each director so elected shall hold office until the expiration of the term of office of the director whom he has replaced.
Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws:
(i) Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors elected by all of the stockholders having the right to vote as a single class may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.
(ii) Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may be filled by a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series thereof then in office, or by a sole remaining director so elected.
If at any time, by reason of death or resignation or other cause, the Corporation should have no directors in office, then any officer or any stockholder or an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of a stockholder, or other fiduciary entrusted with like responsibility for the person or estate of a stockholder, may apply to the Court of Chancery for a decree summarily ordering an election as provided in Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware. If, at the time of filling any vacancy or any newly created directorship, the directors then in office constitute less than a majority of the whole board (as constituted immediately prior to any such increase), then the Court of Chancery may, upon application of any stockholder or stockholders holding at least 10% of the total number of the shares at the time outstanding having the right to vote for such directors, summarily order an election to be held to fill any such vacancies or newly created directorships, or to replace the directors chosen by the directors then in office as aforesaid, which election shall be governed by the provisions of Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware as far as applicable.
3.5 PLACE OF MEETINGS; MEETINGS BY TELEPHONE
The board of directors of the Corporation may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or outside the State of Delaware.
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, members of the board of directors, or any committee designated by the board of directors, may participate in a meeting of the board of directors, or any committee, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
3.6 REGULAR MEETINGS
Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as shall from time to time be determined by the board.
3.7 SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE
Special meetings of the board of directors for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the chairman of the board, the president, any vice president, the secretary or any two directors.
Notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be (i) delivered personally by hand, by courier or by telephone to each director, (ii) sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, (iii) sent by facsimile, or (iv) sent by electronic mail, directed to each director at that director's address, telephone number, facsimile number or electronic mail address, as the case may be, as it is shown on the records of the Corporation.
If the notice is mailed, it shall be deposited in the United States mail at least 4 days before the time of the holding of the meeting. If the notice is (i) delivered personally by hand, by courier or by telephone, (ii) sent by facsimile, or (iii) sent by electronic mail, it shall be delivered or sent at least 24 hours before the time of the holding of the meeting. Any oral notice may be communicated to the director. The notice need not specify the place of the meeting, if the meeting is to be held at the principal executive office of the Corporation, or the purpose of the meeting.
3.8 QUORUM
At all meetings of the board of directors, a majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the board of directors, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation. A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for that meeting.
3.9 WAIVER OF NOTICE
Whenever notice is required to be given under any provision of the General Corporation Law of Delaware or of the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the directors, or members of a committee of directors, need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.
3.10 ADJOURNED MEETING; NOTICE
If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the board of directors, then the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present.
3.11 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS
Meetings of the board of directors shall be presided over by the chairman of the board, if any, or in his absence by the chief executive officer, or in their absence by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in his absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting. The chairman of any meeting shall determine the order of business and the procedures at the meeting.
3.12 BOARD ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the board of directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, or by electronic transmission and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the board or committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.
3.13 FEES AND COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
Unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the board of directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors. The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the board of directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the board of directors or a stated salary as director. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.
3.14 REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS
Unless otherwise restricted by statute, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws, any director or the entire board of directors may be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors. If at any time a class or series of shares is entitled to elect one or more directors, the provisions of this Article 3.14 shall apply to the vote of that class or series and not to the vote of the outstanding shares as a whole.
3.15 DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
At least two-thirds of the members of the board of directors must be independent as defined by the requirements of the exchange on which the Corporation's securities are listed and any other requirements of applicable law, provided, that in the event one or more directors become non-independent or resign and such change causes the proportion of independent directors to be less than two-thirds of the board of directors, the Corporation shall have 150 days from the effective date of such determination or resignation to elect a new independent director. For purposes of this Section 3.15, "independence" shall be determined in accordance with the then applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the primary stock exchange on which the Corporation's stock is traded.
4.1 COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS
The board of directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole board, designate one or more committees, with each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the board of directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the board of directors or in the Bylaws of the Corporation, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the board of directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers that may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority to (i) amend the Certificate of Incorporation (except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the board of directors as provided in Section 151(a) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, fix any of the preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the Corporation or the conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for, shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the Corporation), (ii) adopt an agreement of merger or consolidation under Sections 251 or 252 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, (iii) recommend to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, (iv) recommend to the stockholders a dissolution of the Corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or (v) amend the Bylaws of the Corporation; and, unless the board resolution establishing the committee, the Bylaws or the Certificate of Incorporation expressly so provide, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend, to authorize the issuance of stock, or to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
4.2 COMMITTEE MINUTES
Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the board of directors when required.
4.3 MEETINGS AND ACTION OF COMMITTEES
Meetings and actions of committees shall be governed by, and held and taken in accordance with, the provisions of Article III of these Bylaws, Section 3.5 (place of meetings and meetings by telephone), Section 3.6 (regular meetings), Section 3.7 (special meetings and notice), Section 3.8 (quorum), Section 3.9 (waiver of notice), Section 3.10 (adjournment and notice of adjournment), Section 3.11 (conduct of business) and 3.12 (action without a meeting), with such changes in the context of those Bylaws as are necessary to substitute the committee and its members for the board of directors and its members; provided, however, that the time of regular meetings of committees may also be called by resolution of the board of directors and that notice of special meetings of committees shall also be given to all alternate members, who shall have the right to attend all meetings of the committee. The board of directors may adopt rules for the government of any committee not inconsistent with the provisions of these Bylaws.
5.1 OFFICERS
The officers of the Corporation shall be a chief executive officer, one or more vice presidents, a secretary and a chief financial officer. The Corporation may also have, at the discretion of the board of directors, a chairman of the board, a president, a chief operating officer, one or more executive, senior or assistant vice presidents, assistant secretaries and any such other officers as may be appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.2 of these Bylaws. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
5.2 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS
Except as otherwise provided in this Section 5.2, the officers of the Corporation shall be appointed by the board of directors, subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment. The board of directors may appoint, or empower an officer to appoint, such officers and agents of the business as the Corporation may require (whether or not such officer or agent is described in this Article V), each of whom shall hold office for such period, have such authority, and perform such duties as are provided in these Bylaws or as the board of directors may from time to time determine. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation shall be filled by the board of directors or may be filled by the officer, if any, who appointed such officer.
5.3 REMOVAL AND RESIGNATION OF OFFICERS
Subject to the rights, if any, of an officer under any contract of employment, any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by an affirmative vote of the majority of the board of directors at any regular or special meeting of the board or, except in the case of an officer chosen by the board of directors, by any officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the board of directors or, in the case of an officer appointed by another officer, by such other officer.
Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Corporation. Any resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt of that notice or at any later time specified in that notice; and, unless otherwise specified in that notice, the acceptance of the resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any resignation is without prejudice to the rights, if any, of the Corporation under any contract to which the officer is a party.
5.4 CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
The chairman of the board, if such an officer be elected, shall, if present, preside at meetings of the board of directors and exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the board of directors or as may be prescribed by these Bylaws. If there is no chief executive officer, then the chairman of the board shall also be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and shall have the powers and duties prescribed in Section 5.5 of these Bylaws.
5.5 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
The Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the business and the officers of the Corporation. He or she shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and, in the absence or nonexistence of a Chairman of the Board at all meetings of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the chief executive officer of a Corporation, including general supervision, direction and control of the business and supervision of other officers of the Corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws.
The Chief Executive Officer shall, without limitation, have the authority to execute bonds, mortgages and other contracts requiring a seal, under the seal of the Corporation, except where required or permitted by law to be otherwise signed and executed and except where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board of Directors to some other officer or agent of the Corporation.
5.6 PRESIDENT
Subject to such supervisory powers as may be given by these Bylaws or the Board of Directors to the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer, if there be such officers, the president shall have general supervision, direction and control of the business and supervision of other officers of the Corporation, and shall have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Bylaws. In the event a Chief Executive Officer shall not be appointed, the President shall have the duties of such office.
5.7 VICE PRESIDENT
In the absence or disability of the president, the vice presidents, if any, in order of their rank as fixed by the board of directors or, if not ranked, a vice president designated by the board of directors, shall perform all the duties of the chief executive officer and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the chief executive officer. The vice presidents shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them respectively by the board of directors, these Bylaws, the chief executive officer or the chairman of the board.
5.8 SECRETARY
The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the Corporation or such other place as the board of directors may direct, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of directors, committees of directors, and stockholders. The minutes shall show the time and place of each meeting, whether regular or special (and, if special, how authorized and the notice given), the names of those present at directors' meetings or committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at stockholders' meetings, and the proceedings thereof.
The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office of the Corporation or at the office of the Corporation's transfer agent or registrar, as determined by resolution of the board of directors, a share register, or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all stockholders and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number and date of certificates evidencing such shares, and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation. The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and of the board of directors required to be given by law or by these Bylaws. He shall keep the seal of the Corporation, if one be adopted, in safe custody and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or by these Bylaws.
5.9 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
The chief financial officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the properties and business transactions of the Corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital, retained earnings and shares. The books of account shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any director.
The chief financial officer shall deposit all money and other valuables in the name and to the credit of the Corporation with such depositaries as may be designated by the board of directors. He shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the board of directors, shall render to the chief executive officer and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his transactions as treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these Bylaws.
5.10 ASSISTANT SECRETARY
The assistant secretary, or, if there is more than one, the assistant secretaries in the order determined by the stockholders or board of directors (or if there be no such determination, then in the order of their election) shall, in the absence of the secretary or in the event of his or her inability or refusal to act, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the secretary and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the board of directors or the stockholders may from time to time prescribe.
5.11 AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS
In addition to the foregoing authority and duties, all officers of the Corporation shall respectively have such authority and perform such duties in the management of the business of the Corporation as may be designated from time to time by the board of directors or the stockholders.
6.1 THIRD PARTY ACTIONS
The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that the person is or was a director, officer, employee or an agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
The Corporation may indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that the person is or was a director, officer, employee or an agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, as an employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorney's fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
6.2 ACTIONS BY OR IN THE RIGHT OF THE CORPORATION
The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he is or was a director or officer of Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if he acted in good faith and in manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, and except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, unless and only to the extent that the Delaware Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Delaware Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
The Corporation may indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against expenses (including attorney's fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if he acted in good faith and in manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, and except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, unless and only to the extent that the Delaware Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Delaware Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
6.3 SUCCESSFUL DEFENSE
To the extent that a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in Sections 6.1 and 6.2, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith.
6.4 DETERMINATION OF CONDUCT
Any indemnification under Sections 6.1 and 6.2 (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that the indemnification of the director, officer, employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Sections 6.1 and 6.2. Such determination shall be made (1) by the board of Directors or the Executive Committee by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (2) or if such quorum is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (3) by the stockholders.
6.5 PAYMENT OF EXPENSES IN ADVANCE
Expenses incurred in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the director, officer, employee or agent to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article VI.
6.6 INDEMNITY NOT EXCLUSIVE
The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided or granted pursuant to the other subsections of this section shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights or limiting any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any by-law, certificate of incorporation, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another while holding such office.
6.7 INSURANCE INDEMNIFICATION
The Corporation shall have the power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, any predecessor of the Corporation, or any subsidiary of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation, as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article VI.
6.8 THE CORPORATION
For purposes of this Article VI, references to "the Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting Corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, and employees or agents, so that any person who is was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under and subject to the provisions of this Article VI (including, without limitation the provisions of Section 6.4) with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
6.9 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
For purposes of this Article VI, references to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee, or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this Article VI.
6.10 CONTINUATION OF INDEMNIFICATION AND ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES
The indemnification and advanced of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article VI shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
6.11 INDEMNITY FUND
Upon resolution passed by the Board, the Corporation may create a trust fund, grant a security interest and/or use other means (including, without limitation, letters of credit, surety bonds and/or similar arrangements), to ensure the payment of certain of its obligations arising under this Article VI and/or agreements which may be entered into between the Corporation and its officers and/or directors from time to time.
7.1 MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF RECORDS
The Corporation shall, either at its principal executive office or at such place or places as designated by the board of directors, keep a record of its stockholders listing their names and addresses and the number and class of shares held by each stockholder, a copy of these Bylaws as amended to date, accounting books, and other records.
Any stockholder of record, in person or by attorney or other agent, shall, upon written demand under oath stating the purpose thereof, have the right during the usual hours for business to inspect for any proper purpose the Corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders, and its other books and records and to make copies or extracts therefrom. A proper purpose shall mean a purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as a stockholder. In every instance where an attorney or other agent is the person who seeks the right to inspection, the demand under oath shall be accompanied by a power of attorney or such other writing that authorizes the attorney or other agent to so act on behalf of the stockholder. The demand under oath shall be directed to the Corporation at its registered office in Delaware or at its principal place of business.
7.2 INSPECTION BY DIRECTORS
Any director shall have the right to examine the Corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders and its other books and records for a purpose reasonably related to his position as a director. The Court of Chancery is hereby vested with the exclusive jurisdiction to determine whether a director is entitled to the inspection sought. The Court may summarily order the Corporation to permit the director to inspect any and all books and records, the stock ledger, and the stock list and to make copies or extracts therefrom. The Court may, in its discretion, prescribe any limitations or conditions with reference to the inspection, or award such other and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper.
7.3 REPRESENTATION OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS
The chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, any vice president, the chief financial officer, the secretary or assistant secretary of this Corporation, or any other person authorized by the board of directors or the chief executive officer or a vice president, is authorized to vote, represent, and exercise on behalf of this Corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of this Corporation. The authority granted herein may be exercised either by such person directly or by any other person authorized to do so by proxy or power of attorney duly executed by such person having the authority.
8.1 CHECKS
From time to time, the board of directors shall determine by resolution which person or persons may sign or endorse all checks, drafts, other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness that are issued in the name of or payable to the Corporation, and only the persons so authorized shall sign or endorse those instruments.
8.2 EXECUTION OF CORPORATE CONTRACTS AND INSTRUMENTS
The board of directors, except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, may authorize any officer or officers, or agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation; such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Unless so authorized or ratified by the board of directors or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the Corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.
8.3 STOCK CERTIFICATES; PARTLY PAID SHARES
The shares of a corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the board of directors of the Corporation may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the board of directors, every holder of stock represented by certificates and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by the chairman or vice-chairman of the board of directors, or the president or vice-president, and by the treasurer or an assistant treasurer, or the secretary or an assistant secretary of such Corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
The Corporation may issue the whole or any part of its shares as partly paid and subject to call for the remainder of the consideration to be paid therefor. Upon the face or back of each stock certificate issued to represent any such partly paid shares, upon the books and records of the Corporation in the case of uncertificated partly paid shares, the total amount of the consideration to be paid therefor and the amount paid thereon shall be stated. Upon the declaration of any dividend on fully paid shares, the Corporation shall declare a dividend upon partly paid shares of the same class, but only upon the basis of the percentage of the consideration actually paid thereon.
8.4 SPECIAL DESIGNATION ON CERTIFICATES
If the Corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, then the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate that the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock; provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided in Section 202 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, in lieu of the foregoing requirements there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate that the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to this Section 8.4 or Sections 156, 202(a) or 218(a) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware or with respect to this Section 8.4 a statement that the corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated stock and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing stock of the same class and series shall be identical.
8.5 LOST CERTIFICATES
Except as provided in this Section 8.5, no new certificates for shares shall be issued to replace a previously issued certificate unless the latter is surrendered to the Corporation and cancelled at the same time. The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock or uncertificated shares in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate or uncertificated shares.
8.6 CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS
Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction, and definitions in the Delaware General Corporation Law shall govern the construction of these Bylaws. Without limiting the generality of this provision, the singular number includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, and the term "person" includes both a Corporation and a natural person.
8.7 DIVIDENDS
The directors of the Corporation, subject to any restrictions contained in the Certificate of Incorporation, may declare and pay dividends upon the shares of its capital stock pursuant to the General Corporation Law of Delaware. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the Corporation's capital stock.
The directors of the Corporation may set apart out of any of the funds of the Corporation available for dividends a reserve or reserves for any proper purpose and may abolish any such reserve. Such purposes shall include but not be limited to equalizing dividends, repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, and meeting contingencies.
8.8 FISCAL YEAR
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the board of directors and may be changed by the board of directors.
8.9 SEAL
The Corporation may adopt a corporate seal, which may be altered at pleasure, and may use the same by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
8.10 TRANSFER OF STOCK
Upon surrender to the Corporation or the transfer agent of the Corporation of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignation or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the Corporation to issue a new certificate or uncertificated shares to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate, and record the transaction in its books.
8.11 STOCK TRANSFER AGREEMENTS
The Corporation shall have power to enter into and perform any agreement with any number of stockholders of any one or more classes of stock of the Corporation to restrict the transfer of shares of stock of the Corporation of any one or more classes owned by such stockholders in any manner not prohibited by the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
8.12 REGISTERED STOCKHOLDERS
The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends and to vote as such owner, shall be entitled to hold liable for calls and assessments the person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of another person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
The original or other Bylaws of the Corporation may be adopted, amended or repealed by the stockholders entitled to vote; provided, however, that the Corporation may, in its Certificate of Incorporation, confer the power to adopt, amend or repeal Bylaws upon the directors. The fact that such power has been so conferred upon the directors shall not divest the stockholders of the power, nor limit their power to adopt, amend or repeal Bylaws.
If it should be deemed advisable in the judgment of the board of directors of the Corporation that the Corporation should be dissolved, the board, after the adoption of a resolution to that effect by a majority of the whole board at any meeting called for that purpose, shall cause notice to be mailed to each stockholder entitled to vote thereon of the adoption of the resolution and of a meeting of stockholders to take action upon the resolution.
At the meeting a vote shall be taken for and against the proposed dissolution. If a majority of the outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon votes for the proposed dissolution, then a certificate stating that the dissolution has been authorized in accordance with the provisions of Section 275 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware and setting forth the names and residences of the directors and officers shall be executed, acknowledged, and filed and shall become effective in accordance with Section 103 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware. Upon such certificate's becoming effective in accordance with Section 103 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, the Corporation shall be dissolved.
11.1 APPOINTMENT OF A CUSTODIAN IN CERTAIN CASES
The Court of Chancery, upon application of any stockholder, may appoint one or more persons to be custodians and, if the Corporation is insolvent, to be receivers, of and for the Corporation when:
(i) at any meeting held for the election of directors the stockholders are so divided that they have failed to elect successors to directors whose terms have expired or would have expired upon qualification of their successors; or
(ii) the business of the Corporation is suffering or is threatened with irreparable injury because the directors are so divided respecting the management of the affairs of the Corporation that the required vote for action by the board of directors cannot be obtained and the stockholders are unable to terminate this division; or
(iii) the Corporation has abandoned its business and has failed within a reasonable time to take steps to dissolve, liquidate or distribute its assets.
11.2 DUTIES OF CUSTODIAN
The custodian shall have all the powers and title of a receiver appointed under Section 291 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, but the authority of the custodian shall be to continue the business of the Corporation and not to liquidate its affairs and distribute its assets, except when the Court of Chancery otherwise orders and except in cases arising under Sections 226(a)(3) or 352(a)(2) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
Subject to applicable law, the Corporation may lend money to, or guarantee any obligation of, or otherwise assist any officer or other employee of the Corporation or of its subsidiaries, including any officer or employee who is a Director of the Corporation or its subsidiaries, whenever, in the judgment of the Board of Directors, such loan, guarantee or assistance may reasonably be expected to benefit the Corporation. The loan, guarantee or other assistance may be with or without interest and may be unsecured, or secured in such manner as the Board of Directors shall approve, including, without limitation, a pledge of shares of stock of the Corporation. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to deny, limit or restrict the powers of guaranty or warranty of the Corporation at common law or under any statute.

EXHIBIT 10.1
1.   The purposes of this Equity Incentive Plan are to attract and retain the best available personnel for positions of substantial responsibility, to provide additional incentive to Service Providers and Outside Directors and to promote the success of the Company's business.
Purposes of the Plan
.
Awards to Service Providers granted hereunder may be Incentive Stock Options, Nonstatutory Stock Options, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Deferred Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents, at the discretion of the Administrator and as reflected in the terms of the written option agreement. This Equity Incentive Plan also provides for the automatic, non-discretionary award of Nonstatutory Stock Options to Outside Directors.
2.   As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
.
(a) shall mean the Board or any of its Committees as shall be administering the Plan, in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.
"
Administrator
"
(b) shall mean the Company's or a business unit's net sales for the Fiscal Year, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
"
Annual Revenue
"
(c) shall mean the legal requirements relating to the administration of equity incentive plans under California corporate and securities laws and the Code.
"
Applicable Laws
"
(d) shall mean, individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of Incentive Stock Options, Nonstatutory Stock Options, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Deferred Stock Units or Dividend Equivalents.
"
Award
"
(e) shall mean the written or electronic agreement setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to each Award granted under the Plan. The Award Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
"
Award Agreement
"
(f) shall mean the Common Stock subject to an Award.
"
Awarded Stock
"
(g) shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
"
Board
"
(h) shall mean the Company's level of cash and cash equivalents.
"
Cash Position
"
(i) shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"
Code
"
(j) shall mean the Common Stock of the Company.
"
Common Stock
"
(k) shall mean the Committee appointed by the Board of Directors or a sub-committee appointed by the Board's designated committee in accordance with Section 4(a) of the Plan, if one is appointed.
"
Committee
"
(l) shall mean Juniper Networks, Inc.
"
Company
"
(m) shall mean any person, including an advisor, engaged by the Company or a Parent or Subsidiary to render services and who is compensated for such services; provided, however, that the term "Consultant" shall not include Outside Directors, unless such Outside Directors are compensated for services to the Company other than through payment of director's fees and Option grants under Section 11 hereof.
"
Consultant
"
(n) means that the Director relationship is not interrupted or terminated.
"
Continuous Status as a Director
"
(o) means a deferred stock unit Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 16.
"
Deferred Stock Unit
"
(p) shall mean a member of the Board.
"
Director
"
(q) means total and permanent disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
"
Disability
"
(r) shall mean a credit, payable in cash, made at the discretion of the Administrator, to the account of a Participant in an amount equal to the cash dividends paid on one Share for each Share represented by an Award held by such Participant. Dividend Equivalents may be subject to the same vesting restrictions as the related Shares subject to an Award, at the discretion of the Administrator.
"
Dividend Equivalent
"
(s) shall mean any person, including Officers and Directors, employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. An Employee shall not cease to be an Employee in the case of (i) any leave of absence approved by the Company or (ii) transfers between locations of the Company or between the Company, its Parent, any Subsidiary, or any successor. For purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no such leave may exceed ninety days, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave is guaranteed by statute or contract. If reemployment upon expiration of a leave of absence approved by the Company is not so guaranteed, then three (3) months following the 91st day of such leave any Incentive Stock Option held by the Participant shall cease to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and shall be treated for tax purposes as a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
"
Employee
"
(t) shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"
Exchange Act
"
(u) shall mean, as of any date, the value of Common Stock determined as follows:
"
Fair Market Value
"
(i) If the Common Stock is listed on a stock exchange, the fair market value per Share shall be the closing price on such exchange, as reported in the Wall Street Journal on the date of determination or, if the date of determination is not a trading day, the immediately preceding trading day;
(ii) If there is a public market for the Common Stock, the fair market value per Share shall be the mean of the bid and asked prices, or closing price in the event quotations for the Common Stock are reported on the National Market System, of the Common Stock on the date of determination, as reported in the Wall Street Journal (or, if not so reported, as otherwise reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation (NASDAQ) System); or
(iii) In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the Administrator.
(v) shall mean a fiscal year of the Company.
"
Fiscal Year
"
(w) shall mean a grant of Restricted Stock, a Restricted Stock Unit, a Performance Share or a Deferred Stock Unit hereunder.
"
Full Value Award
"
(x) shall mean an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
"
Incentive Stock Option
"
(y) shall mean an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
"
Nonstatutory Stock Option
"
(z) shall mean a person who is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
"
Officer
"
(aa) shall mean a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan.
"
Option
"
(bb) shall mean the Common Stock subject to an Option.
"
Optioned Stock
"
(cc) means a Director who is not an Employee or Consultant.
"
Outside Director
"
(dd) shall mean a "parent corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
"
Parent
"
(ee) shall mean an Employee or Consultant who receives an Award.
"
Participant
"
(ff) shall mean the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the Administrator (in its discretion) to be applicable to a Participant with respect to an Award. As determined by the Administrator, the performance measures for any performance period will be any one or more of the following objective performance criteria, applied to either the Company as a whole or, except with respect to stockholder return metrics, to a region, business unit, affiliate or business segment, and measured either on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to a previous period's results or to a designated comparison group, and, with respect to financial metrics, which may be determined in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (""), in accordance with accounting principles established by the International Accounting Standards Board ("") or which may be adjusted when established to exclude any items otherwise includable under GAAP or under IASB Principles: (i) cash flow (including operating cash flow or free cash flow), (ii) cash position, (iii) revenue (on an absolute basis or adjusted for currency effects), (iv) revenue growth, (v) contribution margin, (vi) gross margin, (vii) operating margin (viii) operating expenses or operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, (ix) earnings (which may include earnings before interest and taxes, earnings before taxes and net earnings), (x) earnings per share, (xi) operating income, (xii) net income, (xiii) stock price, (xiv) return on equity, (xv) total stockholder return, (xvi) growth in stockholder value relative to a specified publicly reported index (such as the S&P 500 Index), (xvii) return on capital, (xviii) return on assets or net assets, (xix) return on investment, (xx) economic value added, (xxi) operating profit or net operating profit, (xxii) operating margin, (xxiii) market share, (xxiv) contract awards or backlog, (xxv) overhead or other expense reduction, (xxvi) credit rating, (xxvii) objective customer indicators, (xxviii) new product invention or innovation, (xxix) attainment of research and development milestones, (xxx) improvements in productivity, (xxxi) attainment of objective operating goals, and (xxxii) objective employee metrics. The Performance Goals may differ from Participant to Participant and from Award to Award. In particular, the Administrator may appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under a Performance Goal to exclude (a) any extraordinary non-recurring items, (b) the affect of any merger, acquisition, or other business combination or divestiture or (ii) the effect of any changes in accounting principles affecting the Company's or a business units', region's, affiliate's or business segment's reported results.
"
Performance Goals
"
GAAP
IASB Principles
(gg) shall mean a performance share Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 14.
"
Performance Share
"
(hh) means a performance unit Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 15.
"
Performance Unit
"
(ii) shall mean this 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended.
"
Plan
"
(jj) shall mean the minimum vesting requirements for Full Value Awards under Plan Section 4(b)(vi) hereunder.
"
Plan Minimum Vesting Requirements
"
(kk) shall mean a restricted stock Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 11.
"
Restricted Stock
"
(ll) shall mean a bookkeeping entry representing an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of one Share, granted pursuant to Section 13. Each Restricted Stock Unit represents an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company.
"
Restricted Stock Unit
"
(mm) shall mean Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or any successor to Rule 16b-3, as in effect when discretion is being exercised with respect to the Plan.
"
Rule 16b-3
"
(nn)  shall mean Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
"
Section 16(b)
"
(oo) means an Employee or Consultant.
"
Service Provider
"
(pp) shall mean a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 21 of the Plan.
"
Share
"
(qq) or "" shall mean a stock appreciation right granted pursuant to Section 9 below.
"
Stock Appreciation Right
"
SAR
(rr) shall mean a "subsidiary corporation", whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
"
Subsidiary
"
3.   Subject to the provisions of Section 21 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of shares which may be optioned and sold under the Plan is 149,500,000 shares of Common Stock plus any Shares subject to any options under the Company's 2000 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan and 1996 Stock Incentive Plan that are outstanding on the date this Plan becomes effective and that subsequently expire unexercisedup to a maximum of an additional 75,000,000 Shares. All of the shares issuable under the Plan may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock.
Stock Subject to the Plan
.
,
Any Shares subject to Options or SARs shall be counted against the numerical limits of this Section 3 as one Share for every Share subject thereto. Any Shares subject to Performance Shares, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units with a per share or unit purchase price lower than 100% of Fair Market Value on the date of grant shall be counted against the numerical limits of this Section 3 as two and one-tenth Shares for every one Share subject thereto. To the extent that a Share that was subject to an Award that counted as two and one-tenth Shares against the Plan reserve pursuant to the preceding sentence is recycled back into the Plan under the next paragraph of this Section 3, the Plan shall be credited with two and one-tenth Shares.
If an Award expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised in full, or, with respect to Restricted Stock, Performance Shares or Restricted Stock Units, is forfeited to or repurchased by the Company at its original purchase price due to such Award failing to vest, the unpurchased Shares (or for Awards other than Options and SARs, the forfeited or repurchased shares) which were subject thereto shall become available for future grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated). With respect to SARs, when an SAR is exercised, the shares subject to a SAR grant agreement shall be counted against the numerical limits of Section 3 above, as one share for every share subject thereto, regardless of the number of shares used to settle the SAR upon exercise (i.e., shares withheld to satisfy the exercise price of an SAR shall not remain available for issuance under the Plan). Shares that have actually been issued under the Plan under any Award shall not be returned to the Plan and shall not become available for future distribution under the Plan; provided, however, that if Shares of Restricted Stock, Performance Shares or Restricted Stock Units are repurchased by the Company at their original purchase price or are forfeited to the Company due to such Awards failing to vest, such Shares shall become available for future grant under the Plan. Shares used to pay the exercise price of an Option shall not become available for future grant or sale under the Plan. Shares used to satisfy tax withholding obligations shall not become available for future grant or sale under the Plan. To the extent an Award under the Plan is paid out in cash rather than stock, such cash payment shall not reduce the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan. Any payout of Dividend Equivalents or Performance Units, because they are payable only in cash, shall not reduce the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan. Conversely, any forfeiture of Dividend Equivalents or Performance Units shall not increase the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan.
4. 
Administration of the Plan
.
(a) 
Procedure
.
(i)   If permitted by Applicable Laws, the Plan may be administered by different bodies with respect to Directors, Officers who are not Directors, and Employees who are neither Directors nor Officers.
Multiple Administrative Bodies
.
(ii)   To the extent that the Administrator determines it to be desirable to qualify Awards granted hereunder as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Plan shall be administered by a Committee consisting solely of two or more "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Section 162(m)
.
(iii)   With respect to Option grants made to Employees who are also Officers subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board, if the Board may administer the Plan in compliance with Rule 16b-3, or (B) a committee designated by the Board to administer the Plan, which committee shall be constituted to comply with Rule 16b-3. Once appointed, such Committee shall continue to serve in its designated capacity until otherwise directed by the Board. From time to time the Board may increase the size of the Committee and appoint additional members, remove members (with or without cause) and substitute new members, fill vacancies (however caused), and remove all members of the Committee and thereafter directly administer the Plan, all to the extent permitted by Rule 16b-3.
Administration With Respect to Officers Subject to Section 16(b)
.
(iv)   With respect to Award grants made to Employees or Consultants who are not Officers of the Company, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board, (B) a committee designated by the Board, or (C) a sub-committee designated by the designated committee, which committee or sub-committee shall be constituted to satisfy Applicable Laws. Once appointed, such Committee shall serve in its designated capacity until otherwise directed by the Board. The Board may increase the size of the Committee and appoint additional members, remove members (with or without cause) and substitute new members, fill vacancies (however caused), and remove all members of the Committee and thereafter directly administer the Plan, all to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws.
Administration With Respect to Other Persons
.
(v)   Automatic Grants to Outside Directors shall be pursuant to a non-discretionary formula as set forth in Section 11 hereof and therefore shall not be subject to any discretionary administration.
Administration With Respect to Automatic Grants to Outside Directors
.
(b)   Subject to the provisions of the Plan (including the non-discretionary automatic grant to Outside Director provisions of Section 11), and in the case of a Committee, subject to the specific duties delegated by the Board to such Committee, the Administrator shall have the authority, in its discretion:
Powers of the Administrator
.
(i) to determine the Fair Market Value in accordance with Section 2(v) of the Plan;
(ii) to select the Service Providers to whom Awards may be granted hereunder;
(iii) to determine whether and to what extent Awards are granted hereunder;
(iv) to determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be covered by each Award granted hereunder;
(v) to approve forms of agreement for use under the Plan;
(vi) to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, of any Award granted hereunder. Such terms and conditions include, but are not limited to, the exercise price, the time or times when Awards vest or may be exercised (which may be based on performance criteria), any vesting acceleration or waiver of forfeiture restrictions (subject to compliance with applicable laws, including Code Section 409A), and any restriction or limitation regarding any Award or the shares of Common Stock relating thereto, based in each case on such factors as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine; provided, however, that with respect to Full Value Awards vesting solely based on continuing as a Service Provider, they will vest in full no earlier (except if accelerated pursuant to Section 21 hereof or pursuant to change of control severance agreements entered into by and between the Company and any Service Provider) than the three (3) year anniversary of the grant date; provided, further, that if vesting is not solely based on continuing as a Service Provider, they will vest in full no earlier (except if accelerated pursuant to Section 21 hereof or pursuant to change of control severance agreements entered into by and between the Company and any Service Provider) than the one (1) year anniversary of the grant date;
(vii) to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and Awards granted pursuant to the Plan;
(viii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan;
(ix) to modify or amend each Award (subject to Section 7 and Section 24(c) of the Plan);
(x) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effect the grant of an Award previously granted by the Administrator;
(xi) to determine the terms and restrictions applicable to Awards;
(xii) to determine whether Awards will be adjusted for Dividend Equivalents and whether such Dividend Equivalents shall be subject to vesting; and
(xiii) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for administering the Plan.
(c)   All decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Administrator shall be final and binding on all Participants and any other holders of any Awards granted under the Plan.
Effect of Administrator's Decision
.
(d) 
Exception to Plan Minimum Vesting Requirements
.
(i) Full Value Awards that result in issuing up to 5% of the maximum aggregate number of             shares of Stock authorized for issuance under the Plan (the "") may be granted to any one or more employees or Non-employee Directors without respect to the Plan Minimum Vesting Requirements.
5% Limit
(ii) All Full Value Awards that have their vesting discretionarily accelerated, and all Options and SARs that have their vesting discretionarily accelerated 100%, other than, in either case, pursuant to (A) a merger or asset sale transaction described in Section 21(c) hereof (including vesting acceleration in connection with employment termination following such event), (B) a Participant's death, or (C) a Participant's Disability, are subject to the 5% Limit.
(iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrator may accelerate the vesting of Full Value Awards such that the Plan Minimum Vesting Requirements are still satisfied, without such vesting acceleration counting toward the 5% Limit.
(iv) The 5% Limit applies in the aggregate to Full Value Award grants that do not satisfy Plan minimum vesting requirements and to the discretionary vesting acceleration of Awards.
5.   Awards may be granted only to Service Providers. Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees. A Service Provider who has been granted an Award may, if he or she is otherwise eligible, be granted an additional Award or Awards. Outside Directors may only be granted Awards as specified in Section 11 hereof.
Eligibility
.
6. 
Code Section 
162(m)
Provisions
.
(a)   Subject to Section 7 below, no Participant shall be granted, in any Fiscal Year, Options and Stock Appreciation Rights to purchase more than 2,000,000 Shares; provided, however, that such limit shall be 4,000,000 Shares in the Participant's first Fiscal Year of Company service.
Option and SAR Annual Share Limit
.
(b)   No Participant shall be granted, in any Fiscal Year, more than 1,000,000 Shares in the aggregate of the following: (i) Restricted Stock, (ii) Performance Shares, or (iii) Restricted Stock Units; provided, however, that such limit shall be 2,000,000 Shares in the Participant's first Fiscal Year of Company service.
Restricted Stock, Performance Share and Restricted Stock Unit Annual Limit
.
(c)   No Participant shall receive Performance Units, in any Fiscal Year, having an initial value greater than $2,000,000, provided, however, that such limit shall be $4,000,000 in the Participant's first Fiscal Year of Company service.
Performance Units Annual Limit
.
(d)   For purposes of qualifying grants of Restricted Stock, Performance Shares, Performance Units or Restricted Stock Units as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator, in its discretion, may set restrictions based upon the achievement of Performance Goals. The Performance Goals shall be set by the Administrator on or before the latest date permissible to enable the Restricted Stock, Performance Shares, Performance Units or Restricted Stock Units to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. In granting Restricted Stock, Performance Shares, Performance Units or Restricted Stock Units which are intended to qualify under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator shall follow any procedures determined by it from time to time to be necessary or appropriate to ensure qualification of the Award under Section 162(m) of the Code (e.g., in determining the Performance Goals).
Section 
162(m)
Performance Restrictions
.
(e)   The numerical limitations in Sections 6(a) and (b) shall be adjusted proportionately in connection with any change in the Company's capitalization as described in Section 16(a).
Changes in Capitalization
.
7.   The exercise price for an Option or SAR may not be reduced without the consent of the Company's stockholders. This shall include, without limitation, a repricing of the Option or SAR as well as an Option or SAR exchange program whereby the Participant agrees to cancel an existing Option in exchange for an Option, SAR or other Award. If an Option or SAR is cancelled in the same Fiscal Year in which it was granted (other than in connection with a transaction described in Section 14), the cancelled Option or SAR as well as any replacement Option or SAR will be counted against the limits set forth in section 6(a) above. Moreover, if the exercise price of an Option or SAR is reduced, the transaction will be treated as a cancellation of the Option or SAR and the grant of a new Option or SAR.
No Repricing
.
8. 
Stock Options
.
(a)   Each Option shall be designated in the Award Agreement as either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option. However, notwithstanding such designations, to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of Shares subject to a Participant's incentive stock options granted by the Company, any Parent or Subsidiary, that become exercisable for the first time during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, such excess Options shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options. For purposes of this Section 8(a), incentive stock options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market Value of the Shares shall be determined as of the time of grant.
Type of Option
.
(b)   The term of each Option shall be stated in the Notice of Grant; provided, however, that the term shall be seven (7) years from the date of grant or such shorter term as may be provided in the Notice of Grant. Moreover, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Participant who, at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the term of the Incentive Stock Option shall be five (5) years from the date of grant or such shorter term as may be provided in the Notice of Grant.
Term of Option
.
(c) 
Exercise Price and Consideration
.
(i) The per Share exercise price for the Shares to be issued pursuant to exercise of an Option shall be such price as is determined by the Administrator, but shall be subject to the following:
(A) In the case of an Incentive Stock Option
(1) granted to an Employee who, at the time the Incentive Stock Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 110% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.
(2) granted to any Employee, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.
(B) In the case of a Nonstatutory Stock Option, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.
(ii) Except with respect to automatic stock option grants to Outside Directors, the consideration to be paid for the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an Option, including the method of payment, shall be determined by the Administrator and may consist entirely of cash; check; delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with such other documentation as the Committee and the broker, if applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the option and delivery to the Company of the sale proceeds required; or any combination of such methods of payment, or such other consideration and method of payment for the issuance of Shares to the extent permitted under Applicable Law.
9. 
Stock Appreciation Rights.
(a)   Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Administrator, in its sole discretion. Subject to Section 6(a) hereof, the Administrator shall have complete discretion to determine the number of SARs granted to any Participant.
Grant of SARs
.
(b)   The per share exercise price for the Shares to be issued pursuant to exercise of an SAR shall be determined by the Administrator and shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per share on the date of grant. Otherwise, subject to Section 6(a) of the Plan, the Administrator, subject to the provisions of the Plan, shall have complete discretion to determine the terms and conditions of SARs granted under the Plan; provided, however, that no SAR may have a term of more than seven(=7) years from the date of grant.
Exercise Price and other Terms
.
(c)   Upon exercise of a SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying:
Payment of SAR Amount
.
(i) The difference between the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise over the exercise price; times
(ii) The number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised.
(d)   At the discretion of the Administrator, but only as specified in the Award Agreement, payment for a SAR may be in cash, Shares or a combination thereof. If the Award Agreement is silent as to the form of payment, payment of the SAR may only be in Shares.
Payment upon Exercise of SAR
.
(e)   Each SAR grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the exercise price, the term of the SAR, the conditions of exercise, whether it may be settled in cash, Shares or a combination thereof, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
SAR Agreement
.
(f)   A SAR granted under the Plan shall expire upon the date determined by the Administrator, in its sole discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement.
Expiration of SARs
.
10. 
Exercise of Option or SAR
.
(a) .  Any Option or SAR granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator, including performance criteria with respect to the Company and/or the Participant, and as shall be permissible under the terms of the Plan.
Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Shareholder
An Option or SAR may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
An Option or SAR shall be deemed to be exercised when written notice of such exercise has been given to the Company in accordance with the terms of the Option or SAR by the person entitled to exercise the Option or SAR and, with respect to Options only, full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised has been received by the Company. With respect to Options only, full payment may, as authorized by the Administrator, consist of any consideration and method of payment allowable under Section 8(d) of the Plan. Until the issuance (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) of the stock certificate evidencing such Shares, no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a shareholder shall exist with respect to the Optioned Stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 21 of the Plan.
(b)   If an Employee or Consultant ceases to serve as a Service Provider, he or she may, but only within 90 days (or such other period of time as is determined by the Administrator and as set forth in the Option or SAR Agreement) after the date he or she ceases to be a Service Provider, exercise his or her Option or SAR to the extent that he or she was entitled to exercise it at the date of such termination. To the extent that he or she was not entitled to exercise the Option or SAR at the date of such termination, or if he or she does not exercise such Option or SAR (which he or she was entitled to exercise) within the time specified herein, the Option or SAR shall terminate.
Termination of Status as a Service Provider
.
(c)   If a Participant ceases to be a Service Provider as a result of the Participant's Disability, the Participant may exercise his or her Option or SAR within such period of time as is specified in the Award Agreement to the extent the Option or SAR is vested on the date of termination (but in no event later than the expiration of the term of such Option or SAR as set forth in the Award Agreement). In the absence of a specified time in the Award Agreement, the Option or SAR shall remain exercisable for twelve (12) months following the Participant's termination. If, on the date of termination, the Participant is not vested as to his or her entire Option or SAR, the Shares covered by the unvested portion of the Option or SAR shall revert to the Plan. If, after termination, the Participant does not exercise his or her Option or SAR within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option or SAR shall revert to the Plan.
Disability
.
(d)   If a Participant dies while a Service Provider, the Option or SAR may be exercised following the Participant's death within such period of time as is specified in the Award Agreement (but in no event may the option be exercised later than the expiration of the term set forth in the Award Agreement), by the Participant's designated beneficiary, provided such beneficiary has been designated prior to Participant's death in a form acceptable to the Administrator. If no such beneficiary has been designated by the Participant, then such Option or SAR may be exercised by the personal representative of the Participant's estate or by the person(s) to whom the Option or SAR is transferred pursuant to the Participant's will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution. In the absence of a specified time in the Award Agreement, the Option or SAR shall remain exercisable for twelve (12) months following Participant's death. If the Option or SAR is not so exercised within the time specified herein, the Option or SAR shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option or SAR shall revert to the Plan.
Death of Participant
.
11. 
Automatic Stock Option Grants to Outside Directors
.
(a)   All grants of Options to Outside Directors under this Plan shall be automatic and non-discretionary and shall be made strictly in accordance with the following provisions:
Procedure for Grants
.
(i) No person shall have any discretion to select which Outside Directors shall be granted Options or Restricted Stock Units or to determine the number of Shares to be covered by Options or Restricted Stock Units granted to Outside Directors.
(ii) Each Outside Director shall be automatically granted an Option to purchase 50,000 Shares (the "") upon the date on which such person first becomes a Director, whether through election by the stockholders of the Company or appointment by the Board of Directors to fill a vacancy.
First Option
(iii) At each of the Company's annual stockholder meetings (A) each Outside Director who was an Outside Director on the date of the prior year's annual stockholder meeting shall be automatically granted Restricted Stock Units for a number of Shares equal to the Annual Value, and (B) each Outside Director who was not an Outside Director on the date of the prior year's annual stockholder meeting shall receive a Restricted Stock Unit for a number of Shares determined by multiplying the Annual Value by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days since the Outside Director received their First Option (or, in the case of a Director who has transitioned from an employee director to an Outside Director and did not receive a First Option, the date the Director became an Outside Director), and the denominator of which is 365, rounded down to the nearest whole Share. Each award specified in A and B are generically referred to as an "". The Annual Value means the number equal to $125,000 divided by the average daily closing price over the six month period ending on the last day of the fiscal year preceding the date of grant (for example, the period from July1, 2008  December 31, 2008 for Annual Awards granted in May 2009).
Annual Award
(iv) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (ii) and (iii) hereof, in the event that an automatic grant hereunder would cause the number of Shares subject to outstanding Options and Restricted Stock Units plus the number of Shares previously purchased upon exercise of Options or issued upon vesting of Restricted Stock Units to exceed the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan, then each such automatic grant shall be for that number of Shares determined by dividing the total number of Shares remaining available for grant by the number of Outside Directors on the automatic grant date. Any further grants shall then be deferred until such time, if any, as additional Shares become available for grant under the Plan.
(v) The terms of an Option granted hereunder shall be as follows:
(A) the term of the Option shall be seven (7) years.
(B) the Option shall be exercisable only while the Outside Director remains a Director of the Company, except as set forth in subsection (c) hereof.
(C) the exercise price per Share shall be 100% of the Fair Market Value on the date of grant of the Option.
(D) the First Option shall vest and become exercisable as to 1/36th of the covered Shares each month following the grant date, with the last 1/36th vesting on the day prior to the Company's annual stockholder meeting in the third calendar year following the date of grant, so as to become 100% vested on the approximately three-year anniversary of the grant date, subject to the Participant maintaining Continuous Status as a Director on each vesting date.
(E) the Annual Award shall become 100% vested on the one year anniversary of the grant date, subject to the Participant maintaining Continuous Status as a Director on each vesting date.
(b)   The consideration to be paid for the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an automatic Outside Director Option shall consist entirely of cash, check, and to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws, delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with such other documentation as the Administrator and the broker, if applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and delivery to the Company of the sale proceeds required to pay the exercise price, or any combination of such methods of payment.
Consideration for Exercising Outside Director Stock Options
.
(c)   If an Outside Director ceases to serve as a Director, (including pursuant to his or her death or Disability) he or she may, but only within 90 daysafter the date he or she ceases to be a Director of the Company, exercise his or her Option to the extent that he or she was entitled to exercise it at the date of such termination. To the extent that he or she was not entitled to exercise an Option at the date of such termination, or if he or she does not exercise such Option (which he was entitled to exercise) within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.
Post-Directorship Exercisability
.
,
12. 
Restricted Stock
.
(a)   Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Restricted Stock may be granted to Participants at any time as shall be determined by the Administrator, in its sole discretion. Subject to Section 6(b) hereof as well as the Plan Minimum Vesting Requirements set forth in Sections 4(b)(vi) and 4(d) hereof, the Administrator shall have complete discretion to determine (i) the number of Shares subject to a Restricted Stock award granted to any Participant, and (ii) the conditions that must be satisfied, which typically will be based principally or solely on continued provision of services but may include a performance-based component, upon which is conditioned the grant, vesting or issuance of Restricted Stock.
Grant of Restricted Stock
.
(b)   The Administrator, subject to the provisions of the Plan, shall have complete discretion to determine the terms and conditions of Restricted Stock granted under the Plan; provided that Restricted Stock may only be issued in the form of Shares. Restricted Stock grants shall be subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions determined by the Administrator at the time the stock or the restricted stock unit is awarded. The Administrator may require the recipient to sign a Restricted Stock Award agreement as a condition of the award. Any certificates representing the Shares of stock awarded shall bear such legends as shall be determined by the Administrator.
Other Terms
.
(c)   Each Restricted Stock grant shall be evidenced by an agreement that shall specify the purchase price (if any) and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine; provided; however, that if the Restricted Stock grant has a purchase price, such purchase price must be paid no more than seven (7) years following the date of grant.
Restricted Stock Award Agreement
.
13. 
Restricted Stock Units
.
(a)   Restricted Stock Units may be granted at any time and from time to time as determined by the Administrator. After the Administrator determines that it will grant Restricted Stock Units under the Plan, it shall advise the Participant in writing or electronically of the terms, conditions, and restrictions related to the grant, including the number of Restricted Stock Units and the form of payout, which, subject to Section 6(b) hereof, may be left to the discretion of the Administrator.
Grant
.
(b)   Subject to the Plan Minimum Vesting Requirements set forth in Sections 4(b)(vi) and 4(d) hereof, the Administrator shall set vesting criteria in its discretion, which, depending on the extent to which the criteria are met, will determine the number of Restricted Stock Units that will be paid out to the Participant. The Administrator may set vesting criteria based upon the achievement of Company-wide, business unit, or individual goals (including, but not limited to, continued employment), or any other basis determined by the Administrator in its discretion.
Vesting Criteria and Other Terms
.
(c)   Upon meeting the applicable vesting criteria, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a payout as specified in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any time after the grant of Restricted Stock Units, the Administrator, in its sole discretion, may reduce or waive any vesting criteria that must be met to receive a payout.
Earning Restricted Stock Units
.
(d)   Payment of earned Restricted Stock Units shall be made as soon as practicable after the date(s) set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, but only as specified in the Award Agreement, may pay earned Restricted Stock Units in cash, Shares, or a combination thereof. If the Award Agreement is silent as to the form of payment, payment of the Restricted Stock Units may only be in Shares.
Form and Timing of Payment
.
(e)   On the date set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, all unearned Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited to the Company.
Cancellation
.
14. 
Performance Shares
.
(a)   Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Performance Shares may be granted to Participants at any time as shall be determined by the Administrator, in its sole discretion. Subject to Section 6(b) hereof as well as the Plan Minimum Vesting Requirements set forth in Sections 4(b)(vi) and 4(d) hereof, the Administrator shall have complete discretion to determine (i) the number of Shares subject to a Performance Share award granted to any Participant, and (ii) the conditions that must be satisfied, which typically will be based principally or solely on achievement of performance milestones but may include a service-based component, upon which is conditioned the grant or vesting of Performance Shares. Performance Shares shall be granted in the form of units to acquire Shares. Each such unit shall be the equivalent of one Share for purposes of determining the number of Shares subject to an Award. Until the Shares are issued, no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to the units to acquire Shares.
Grant of Performance Shares
.
(b)   The Administrator, subject to the provisions of the Plan, shall have complete discretion to determine the terms and conditions of Performance Shares granted under the Plan. Performance Share grants shall be subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions determined by the Administrator at the time the stock is awarded, which may include such performance-based milestones as are determined appropriate by the Administrator. The Administrator may require the recipient to sign a Performance Shares Award Agreement as a condition of the award. Any certificates representing the Shares of stock awarded shall bear such legends as shall be determined by the Administrator.
Other Terms
.
(c)   Each Performance Share grant shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Performance Share Award Agreement
.
15. 
Performance Units
.
(a)   Performance Units are similar to Performance Shares, except that they shall be settled in a cash equivalent to the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares, determined as of the vesting date. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Performance Units may be granted to Participants at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Administrator, in its sole discretion. The Administrator shall have complete discretion to determine the conditions that must be satisfied, which typically will be based principally or solely on achievement of performance milestones but may include a service-based component, upon which is conditioned the grant or vesting of Performance Units. Performance Units shall be granted in the form of units to acquire Shares. Each such unit shall be the cash equivalent of one Share of Common Stock. No right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to Performance Units or the cash payable thereunder.
Grant of Performance Units
.
(b)   Subject to Section 6(c) hereof, the Administrator will have complete discretion in determining the number of Performance Units granted to any Participant.
Number of Performance Units
.
(c)   The Administrator, subject to the provisions of the Plan, shall have complete discretion to determine the terms and conditions of Performance Units granted under the Plan. Performance Unit grants shall be subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions determined by the Administrator at the time the grant is awarded, which may include such performance-based milestones as are determined appropriate by the Administrator. The Administrator may require the recipient to sign a Performance Unit agreement as a condition of the award. Any certificates representing the units awarded shall bear such legends as shall be determined by the Administrator.
Other Terms
.
(d)   Each Performance Unit grant shall be evidenced by an agreement that shall specify such terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.
Performance Unit Award Agreement
.
16. 
Deferred Stock Units
.
(a)   Deferred Stock Units shall consist of a Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share or Performance Unit Award that the Administrator, in its sole discretion permits to be paid out in installments or on a deferred basis, in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Administrator, subject to the Plan Minimum Vesting Requirements set forth in Sections 4(b)(vi) and 4(d) hereof. Deferred Stock Units shall remain subject to the claims of the Company's general creditors until distributed to the Participant.
Description
.
(b)   Deferred Stock Units shall be subject to the annual 162(m) limits applicable to the underlying Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share or Performance Unit Award as set forth in Section 6 hereof.
1
62(m)
Limits
.
17.   If as a condition to be granted an unpaid leave of absence by the Company, a Participant agrees that vesting shall be suspended during all or a portion of such leave of absence, (except as otherwise required by Applicable Laws) vesting of Awards granted hereunder shall cease during such agreed upon portion of the unpaid leave of absence and shall only recommence upon return to active service.
Leaves of Absence
.
18.   Unless otherwise required by Applicable Laws, if as a condition to being permitted to work on a less than full-time basis, the Participant agrees that any service-based vesting of Awards granted hereunder shall be extended on a proportionate basis in connection with such transition to a less than a full-time basis, vesting shall be adjusted in accordance with such agreement. Such vesting shall be proportionately re-adjusted prospectively in the event that the Employee subsequently becomes regularly scheduled to work additional hours of service.
Part-Time Service
.
19.   Except as determined otherwise by the Administrator in its sole discretion (but never a transfer in exchange for value), Awards may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the Participant, only by the Participant, without the prior written consent of the Administrator.
Non-Transferability of Awards
.
20.   When a Participant incurs tax liability in connection with the exercise, vesting or payout, as applicable, of an Award, which tax liability is subject to tax withholding under applicable tax laws, and the Participant is obligated to pay the Company an amount required to be withheld under applicable tax laws, the Participant may satisfy the withholding tax obligation by electing to have the Company withhold from the Shares to be issued upon exercise of the Option or SAR or the Shares to be issued upon payout or vesting of the other Award, if any, that number of Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount required to be withheld. The Fair Market Value of the Shares to be withheld shall be determined on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined (the "").
Stock Withholding to Satisfy Withholding Tax Obligations
.
Tax Date
All elections by a Participant to have Shares withheld for this purpose shall be made in writing in a form acceptable to the Administrator and shall be subject to the following restrictions:
(a) the election must be made on or prior to the applicable Tax Date; and
(b) all elections shall be subject to the consent or disapproval of the Administrator.
In the event the election to have Shares subject to an Award withheld is made by a Participant and the Tax Date is deferred under Section 83 of the Code because no election is filed under Section 83(b) of the Code, the Participant shall receive the full number of Shares with respect to which the Option or SAR is exercised or other Award is vested but such Participant shall be unconditionally obligated to tender back to the Company the proper number of Shares on the Tax Date.
21. 
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization, Dissolution, Merger or Asset Sale
.
(a)   Subject to any required action by the shareholders of the Company, the number of shares of Common Stock covered by each outstanding Award, and the number of shares of Common Stock which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Awards have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Award, as well as the price per share of Common Stock covered by each such outstanding Award, the annual share limitations under Sections 6(a) and (b) hereof, and the number of Shares subject to ongoing automatic First Option and Annual Award grants to Outside Directors under Section 11 hereof shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; provided, however, that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Such adjustment shall be made by the Board, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an Award.
Changes in Capitalization
.
(b)   In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Administrator shall notify each Participant as soon as practicable prior to the effective date of such proposed transaction. The Administrator in its discretion (but not with respect to Options granted to Outside Directors) may provide for a Participant to have the right to exercise his or her Option or SAR until ten (10) days prior to such transaction as to all of the Awarded Stock covered thereby, including Shares as to which the Award would not otherwise be exercisable. In addition, the Administrator may provide that any Company repurchase option or forfeiture rights applicable to any Award shall lapse 100%, and that any Award vesting shall accelerate 100%, provided the proposed dissolution or liquidation takes place at the time and in the manner contemplated. To the extent it has not been previously exercised (with respect to Options and SARs) or vested (with respect to other Awards), an Award will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action.
Dissolution or Liquidation
.
(c) 
Merger or Asset Sale
.
(i)   In the event of a merger of the Company with or into another corporation, or the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company, each outstanding Option and SAR shall be assumed or an equivalent option or SAR substituted by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation. In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the Option or SAR, the Participant shall fully vest in and have the right to exercise the Option or SAR as to all of the Awarded Stock, including Shares as to which it would not otherwise be vested or exercisable. If an Option or SAR becomes fully vested and exercisable in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a merger or asset sale, the Administrator shall notify the Participant in writing or electronically that the Option or SAR shall be fully vested and exercisable for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of such notice, and the Option or SAR shall terminate upon the expiration of such period. With respect to Options granted to Outside Directors, in the event that the Outside Director is required to terminate his or her position as an Outside Director at the request of the acquiring entity within 12 months following such merger or asset sale, each outstanding Option held by such Outside Director shall become fully vested and exercisable, including as to Shares as to which it would not otherwise be exercisable, unless the Board, in its discretion, determines otherwise.
Stock Options and SARs
.
(ii)   In the event of a merger of the Company with or into another corporation, or the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company, each outstanding Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Dividend Equivalent and Deferred Stock Unit award (and any related Dividend Equivalent) shall be assumed or an equivalent Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Dividend Equivalent and Deferred Stock Unit award (and any related Dividend Equivalent) substituted by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation. In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Dividend Equivalent and Deferred Stock Unit award (and any related Dividend Equivalent), the Participant shall fully vest in the Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Dividend Equivalent and Deferred Stock Unit award (and any related Dividend Equivalent), including as to Shares (or with respect to Dividend Equivalents and Performance Units, the cash equivalent thereof) which would not otherwise be vested. For the purposes of this paragraph, a Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Dividend Equivalent and Deferred Stock Unit award (and any related Dividend Equivalent) shall be considered assumed if, following the merger or asset sale, the award confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share (or with respect to Dividend Equivalents and Performance Units, the cash equivalent thereof) subject to the Award immediately prior to the merger or asset sale, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the merger or asset sale by holders of the Company's common stock for each Share held on the effective date of the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares); provided, however, that if such consideration received in the merger or asset sale is not solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent, the Administrator may, with the consent of the successor corporation, provide for the consideration to be received, for each Share and each unit/right to acquire a Share subject to the Award (other than Dividend Equivalents and Performance Units) to be solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent equal in fair market value to the per share consideration received by holders of the Company's common stock in the merger or asset sale.
Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Deferred Stock Units and Dividend Equivalents
.
22.   The date of grant of an Award shall, for all purposes, be the date on which the Administrator makes the determination granting such Award. Notice of the determination shall be given to each Employee or Consultant to whom an Award is so granted within a reasonable time after the date of such grant.
Time of Granting Awards
.
23.   The Plan shall continue in effect until March 1, 2016 .
Term of Plan
.
24. 
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
.
(a)   The Board may at any time amend, alter, suspend or terminate the Plan.
Amendment and Termination
.
(b)   The Company shall obtain shareholder approval of any Plan amendment to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with Rule 16b-3 or with Section 422 of the Code (or any successor rule or statute or other applicable law, rule or regulation, including the requirements of any exchange or quotation system on which the Common Stock is listed or quoted). Such shareholder approval, if required, shall be obtained in such a manner and to such a degree as is required by the applicable law, rule or regulation.
Shareholder Approval
.
(c)   No amendment, alteration, suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair the rights of any Participant, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Participant and the Administrator, which agreement must be in writing and signed by the Participant and the Company.
Effect of Amendment or Termination
.
25.   Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Option unless the exercise of such Option and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all relevant provisions of law, including, without limitation, the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, state securities laws, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
.
As a condition to the exercise or payout, as applicable, of an Award, the Company may require the person exercising such Option or SAR, or in the case of another Award (other than a Dividend Equivalent or Performance Unit), the person receiving the Shares upon vesting, to render to the Company a written statement containing such representations and warranties as, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, may be required to ensure compliance with any of the aforementioned relevant provisions of law, including a representation that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares, if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required.
26.   The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan. Inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
Reservation of Shares
.

EXHIBIT 10.2
1. . The purpose of the Plan is to provide employees of the Company and its Designated Subsidiaries with an opportunity to purchase Common Stock through accumulated payroll deductions. The Company's intention is to have the Plan qualify as an "employee stock purchase plan" under Section 423 of the Code (the ""), although the Company makes no undertaking nor representation to maintain such qualification. The provisions of the 423(b) Plan, accordingly, will be construed so as to extend and limit Plan participation in a uniform and nondiscriminatory basis consistent with the requirements of Section 423 of the Code. In addition, this Plan document authorizes the grant of rights to purchase stock that do not qualify under Section 423(b) of the Code ("") pursuant to rules, procedures or sub-plans adopted by the Board or Committee designed to achieve tax, securities law or other Company compliance objectives in particular locations outside the United States. Such references to the Plan include the 423(b) and the Non-Section 423(b) Plan components.
Purpose
423(b) Plan
Non-Section 423(b) Plan
If grants are intended to be made under the Non-Section 423(b) Plan, they will be designated as such at the time of grant.
2. .
Definitions
(a) "" means the Board or any Committee designated by the Board to administer the Plan pursuant to Section 14.
Administrator
(b) "" means the requirements relating to the administration of equity-based awards under U.S. state corporate laws, U.S. federal and state securities laws, the Code, any stock exchange or quotation system on which the Common Stock is listed or quoted and the applicable laws of any foreign country or jurisdiction where Awards are, or will be, granted under the Plan.
Applicable Laws
(c) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(d) "" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control
(i) Any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total voting power represented by the Company's then outstanding voting securities; or
(ii) The consummation of the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets; or
(iii) The consummation of a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or its parent) at least fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity or its parent outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or
(e) A change in the composition of the Board occurring within a two (2) year period, as a result of which less than a majority of the Directors are Incumbent Directors. "" means Directors who either (A) are Directors as of the effective date of the Plan, or (B) are elected, or nominated for election, to the Board with the affirmative votes of at least a majority of the Directors at the time of such election or nomination (but will not include an individual whose election or nomination is in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of Directors to the Company).
Incumbent Directors
(f) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Any reference to a section of the Code herein will be a reference to any successor or amended section of the Code.
Code
(g) "" means a committee of the Board appointed in accordance with Section 14 hereof.
Committee
(h) "" means the common stock of the Company.
Common Stock
(i) "" means Juniper Networks, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
(j) "" means an Employee's base straight time gross earnings and commissions, exclusive of payments for overtime, shift premium, incentive compensation, incentive payments, bonuses, sales commission, and other compensation.
Compensation
(k) "" means any Parent or Subsidiary that has been designated by the Administrator from time to time in its sole discretion as eligible to participate in the Plan.
Designated Subsidiary
(l) "" means a member of the Board.
Director
(m) "" means any individual who is a common law employee of an Employer and is customarily employed for at least twenty (20) hours per week and more than five (5) months in any calendar year by the Employer, provided, however that under the Non-Section 423(b) Plan, the Board or Committee appointed by the Board may determine that Employees are eligible to participate in the Plan even if they are employed for less than twenty (20) hours per week or less than five (5) months in any calendar year by the Employer, if such Employee has a right to participate in the Plan under applicable law. For purposes of the Plan, the employment relationship will be treated as continuing intact while the individual is on sick leave or other leave of absence that the Employer approves. Where the period of leave exceeds ninety (90) days and the individual's right to reemployment is not guaranteed either by statute or by contract, the employment relationship will be deemed to have terminated on the ninety-first (91st) day of such leave.
Employee
(n) "" means any one or all of the Company and its Designated Subsidiaries.
Employer
(o) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
(p) "" means the last day of each Offering Period.
Exercise Date
(i) "" means, as of any date and unless the Administrator determines otherwise, the value of Common Stock determined as follows:
Fair Market Value
(ii) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or a national market system, including without limitation the Nasdaq Global Select Market, the Nasdaq Global Market or the Nasdaq Capital Market of The Nasdaq Stock Market, its Fair Market Value will be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such exchange or system on the date of determination, as reported in or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable;
The Wall Street Journal
(iii) If the Common Stock is regularly quoted by a recognized securities dealer but selling prices are not reported, its Fair Market Value will be the mean of the closing bid and asked prices for the Common Stock on the date of determination, as reported in or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable; or
The Wall Street Journal
(iv) In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value thereof will be determined in good faith by the Administrator.
(q) "" means the fiscal year of the Company.
Fiscal Year
(r) "" means a new Exercise Date implemented by shortening any Offering Period then in progress.
New Exercise Date
(s) "" shall mean an employee stock purchase plan which does not meet the requirements set forth in Section 423(b) of the Code, as amended.
Non-Section 423(b) Plan
(t) "" means the first Trading Day of each Offering Period.
Offering Date
(u) "" means a period of approximately six (6) months during which an option granted pursuant to the Plan may be exercised, commencing on the first Trading Day on or after February 1 and terminating on the last Trading Day in the period ending the following July 31, or commencing on the first Trading Day on or after August 1 and terminating on the last Trading Day in the period ending the following January 31. The duration and timing of Offering Periods may be changed pursuant to Sections 4, 20 and 21.
Offering Period
(v) "" means a "parent corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent
(w) "" means this Juniper Networks, Inc. 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan., which includes a Section 423(b) Plan and a Non-Section 423(b) Plan. Unless specified otherwise, references to the Plan herein shall refer to the Section 423(b) Plan.
Plan
(x) "" means an amount equal to eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Offering Date or on the Exercise Date, whichever is lower; provided however, that the Purchase Price may be determined for future Offering Periods pursuant to Section 20.
Purchase Price
(y) "" means an employee stock purchase plan which is designed to meet the requirements set forth in Section 423(b) of the Code, as amended. The provisions of the 423(b) Plan shall be construed, administered and enforced in accordance with Section 423(b) of the Code.
Section 423(b) Plan
(z) "" means a "subsidiary corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary
(aa) "" means a day on which the national stock exchanges and the Nasdaq System are open for trading.
Trading Day
3.
Eligibility.
(a) . Any individual who is an Employee on a given Offering Date will be eligible to participate in such Offering Period, subject to the requirements of Section 5.
Offering Periods
(b) . Any provisions of the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no Employee will be granted an option under the Plan (i) to the extent that, immediately after the grant, such Employee (or any other person whose stock would be attributed to such Employee pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) would own capital stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company and/or hold outstanding options to purchase such stock possessing five percent (5%) or more of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of the capital stock of the Company or of any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company, or (ii) to the extent that his or her rights to purchase stock under all employee stock purchase plans (as defined in Section 423 of the Code) of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company accrues at a rate which exceeds twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) worth of stock (determined at the Fair Market Value of the stock at the time such option is granted) for each calendar year in which such option is outstanding at any time.
Limitations
4. . The Plan will be implemented by consecutive Offering Periods with a new Offering Period commencing on the first Trading Day on or after February 1 and August 1 each year, or on such other date as the Administrator will determine. The Administrator will have the power to change the duration of Offering Periods (including the commencement dates thereof) with respect to future offerings without stockholder approval if such change is announced at least five (5) days prior to the scheduled beginning of the first Offering Period to be affected thereafter.
Offering Periods
5. . An Employee may participate in the Plan pursuant to Section 3(a) by (i) submitting to the Company's payroll office (or its designee), on or before a date prescribed by the Administrator prior to an applicable Offering Date, a properly completed subscription agreement authorizing payroll deductions in the form provided by the Administrator (which may be similar to the form attached hereto as ) for such purpose, or (ii) following an electronic or other enrollment procedure prescribed by the Administrator. Participants in the offering period under the Company's 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ending on or about January 30, 2009 shall, on termination of such offering period, automatically be enrolled in the Offering Period under this Plan commencing on the first Trading Day on or after February 1, 2009 at the same contribution levels as last elected under the 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Participation
Exhibit A
6. .
Payroll Deductions
(a) At the time a participant enrolls in the Plan pursuant to Section 5, he or she will elect to have payroll deductions made on each pay day during the Offering Period in an amount not exceeding ten percent (10%) of the Compensation which he or she receives on each pay day during the Offering Period. The Administrator, in its discretion, may decide that an Employee may submit contributions to the Non-Section 423(b) Plan by means other than payroll deductions. A participant's subscription agreement will remain in effect for successive Offering Periods unless terminated as provided in Section 10 hereof.
(b) Payroll deductions for a participant will commence on the first pay day following the Offering Date and will end on the last pay day prior to the Exercise Date of such Offering Period to which such authorization is applicable, unless sooner terminated by the participant as provided in Section 10 hereof.
(c) All payroll deductions made for a participant will be credited to his or her account under the Plan and will be withheld in whole percentages only. A participant may not make any additional payments into such account.
(d) A participant may discontinue his or her participation in the Plan as provided in Section 10, or may decrease the rate of his or her payroll deductions during the Offering Period by (i) properly completing and submitting to the Company's payroll office (or its designee), on or before a date prescribed by the Administrator prior to an applicable Exercise Date, a new subscription agreement authorizing the change in payroll deduction rate in the form provided by the Administrator for such purpose, or (ii) following an electronic or other procedure prescribed by the Administrator. If a participant has not followed such procedures to change the rate of payroll deductions, the rate of his or her payroll deductions will continue at the originally elected rate throughout the Offering Period and future Offering Periods (unless terminated as provided in Section 6(d)). The Administrator may, in its sole discretion, limit the nature and/or number of payroll deduction rate changes that may be made by participants during any Offering Period. Any change in payroll deduction rate made pursuant to this Section  
6(d)
0
will be effective as of the first full payroll period following five (5) business days after the date on which the change is made by the participant.
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent necessary to comply with Section 423(b)(8) of the Code and Section 3(b), a participant's payroll deductions may be decreased to zero percent (0%) at any time during an Offering Period. Subject to Section 423(b)(8) of the Code and Section 3(b) hereof, payroll deductions will recommence at the rate originally elected by the participant effective as of the beginning of the first Offering Period which is scheduled to end in the following calendar year, unless terminated by the participant as provided in Section 10.
(f) At the time the option is exercised, in whole or in part, or at the time some or all of the Common Stock issued under the Plan is disposed of, the participant must make adequate provision for the Company's or Employer's federal, state, or any other tax withholding liability payable to any authority, national insurance, social security or other tax withholding obligations, if any, which arise upon the exercise of the option or the disposition of the Common Stock. At any time, the Company or the Employer may, but will not be obligated to, withhold from the participant's compensation the amount necessary for the Company or the Employer to meet applicable withholding obligations, including any withholding required to make available to the Company or the Employer any tax deductions or benefits attributable to the sale or early disposition of Common Stock by the Employee.
7. . On the Offering Date of each Offering Period, each Employee participating in such Offering Period will be granted an option to purchase on each Exercise Date during such Offering Period (at the applicable Purchase Price) up to a number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing such Employee's payroll deductions accumulated prior to such Exercise Date and retained in the Employee's account as of the Exercise Date by the applicable Purchase Price; provided that in no event will an Employee be permitted to purchase during any twelve (12) month period more than six thousand (6,000) shares of the Common Stock (subject to any adjustment pursuant to Section 19), and provided further that such purchase will be subject to the limitations set forth in Sections 3(b) and 13. The Employee may accept the grant of such option with respect to any Offering Period under the Plan, by electing to participate in the Plan in accordance with the requirements of Section 5. The Administrator may, for future Offering Periods, increase or decrease, in its absolute discretion, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that each Employee may purchase during each Offering Period. Exercise of the option will occur as provided in Section 8, unless the participant has withdrawn pursuant to Section 10. The option will expire on the last day of the Offering Period.
Grant of Option
8. .
Exercise of Option
(a) Unless a participant withdraws from the Plan as provided in Section 10, his or her option for the purchase of shares of Common Stock will be exercised automatically on the Exercise Date, and the maximum number of full shares subject to option will be purchased for such participant at the applicable Purchase Price with the accumulated payroll deductions in his or her account. No fractional shares of Common Stock will be purchased; any payroll deductions accumulated in a participant's account which are not sufficient to purchase a full share will be retained in the participant's account for the subsequent Offering Period, subject to earlier withdrawal by the participant as provided in Section 10. Any other funds left over in a participant's account after the Exercise Date will be returned to the participant. During a participant's lifetime, a participant's option to purchase shares hereunder is exercisable only by him or her.
(b) If the Administrator determines that, on a given Exercise Date, the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which options are to be exercised may exceed (i) the number of shares of Common Stock that were available for sale under the Plan on the Offering Date of the applicable Offering Period, or (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock available for sale under the Plan on such Exercise Date, the Administrator may in its sole discretion provide that the Company will make a pro rata allocation of the shares of Common Stock available for purchase on such Offering Date or Exercise Date, as applicable, in as uniform a manner as will be practicable and as it will determine in its sole discretion to be equitable among all participants exercising options to purchase Common Stock on such Exercise Date, and continue all Offering Periods then in effect or terminate all Offering Periods then in effect pursuant to Section 20. The Company may make a pro rata allocation of the shares available on the Offering Date of any applicable Offering Period pursuant to the preceding sentence, notwithstanding any authorization of additional shares for issuance under the Plan by the Company's stockholders subsequent to such Offering Date.
9. . As soon as reasonably practicable after each Exercise Date on which a purchase of shares of Common Stock occurs, the Company will arrange the delivery to each participant the shares purchased upon exercise of his or her option in a form determined by the Administrator (in its sole discretion) and pursuant to rules established by the Administrator. No participant will have any voting, dividend, or other stockholder rights with respect to shares of Common Stock subject to any option granted under the Plan until such shares have been purchased and delivered to the participant as provided in this Section 9.
Delivery
10. .
Withdrawal
(a) A participant may withdraw all but not less than all the payroll deductions credited to his or her account and not yet used to exercise his or her option under the Plan at any time by (i) submitting to the Company's payroll office (or its designee) a written notice of withdrawal in the form prescribed by the Administrator for such purpose (which may be similar to the form attached hereto as ), or (ii) following an electronic or other withdrawal procedure prescribed by the Administrator. All of the participant's payroll deductions credited to his or her account will be paid to such participant promptly after receipt of notice of withdrawal and such participant's option for the Offering Period will be automatically terminated, and no further payroll deductions for the purchase of shares will be made for such Offering Period. If a participant withdraws from an Offering Period, payroll deductions will not resume at the beginning of the succeeding Offering Period, unless the participant re-enrolls in the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.
Exhibit B
(b) A participant's withdrawal from an Offering Period will not have any effect upon his or her eligibility to participate in any similar plan which may hereafter be adopted by the Company or in succeeding Offering Periods which commence after the termination of the Offering Period from which the participant withdraws.
11. . Upon a participant's ceasing to be an Eligible Employee, for any reason, he or she will be deemed to have elected to withdraw from the Plan and the payroll deductions credited to such participant's account during the Offering Period but not yet used to purchase shares of Common Stock under the Plan will be returned to such participant or, in the case of his or her death, to the person or persons entitled thereto under Section 15, and such participant's option will be automatically terminated.
Termination of Employment
12. . No interest will accrue on the payroll deductions of a participant in the Plan.
Interest
13. .
Stock
(a) Subject to adjustment upon changes in capitalization of the Company as provided in Section 19 hereof, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock which will be made available for sale under the Plan will be nineteen million (19,000,000) shares.
(b) Until the shares are issued (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), a participant will only have the rights of an unsecured creditor with respect to such shares, and no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder will exist with respect to such shares.
(c) Shares of Common Stock to be delivered to a participant under the Plan will be registered in the name of the participant or, at the sole discretion of the Company, in the name of the participant and his or her spouse.
14. .
Administration
The Plan will be administered by the Board or a Committee appointed by the Board, which Committee will be constituted to comply with Applicable Laws. The Administrator will have full and exclusive discretionary authority to construe, interpret and apply the terms of the Plan, to determine eligibility and to adjudicate all disputed claims filed under the Plan. Every finding, decision and determination made by the Administrator will, to the full extent permitted by law, be final and binding upon all parties. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Plan, and, with respect to the Section 423(b) Plan, to the extent permissible under Code Section 423 and proposed or final Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder (and other Internal Revenue Service guidance), the Administrator may adopt rules or procedures relating to the operation and administration of the Plan to accommodate the specific requirements of local laws and procedures for jurisdictions outside of the United States. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrator is specifically authorized to adopt rules and procedures regarding handling payroll deductions, making of contributions to the Plan, defining eligible Compensation, establishment of bank or trust accounts to hold payroll deductions, conversion of local currency, obligations to pay payroll tax, determination of beneficiary designation requirements, withholding procedures and handling of stock certificates which vary with local requirements.
The Administrator may also adopt rules, procedures or sub-plans applicable to particular Subsidiaries or locations, which sub-plans may be designed to be outside the scope of Code Section 423. The rules of such sub-plans may take precedence over other provisions of this Plan, but unless otherwise superseded by the terms of such sub-plan, the provisions of this Plan shall govern the operation of such sub-plan. To the extent inconsistent with the requirements of Section 423, such sub-plan shall be considered part of the Non-Section 423(b) Plan, and rights granted thereunder shall not be considered to comply with Code Section 423.
15. .
Designation of Beneficiary
(a) At the sole discretion of the Administrator, a participant may file a designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any shares of Common Stock and cash, if any, from the participant's account under the Plan in the event of such participant's death subsequent to an Exercise Date on which the option is exercised but prior to delivery to such participant of such shares and cash. In addition, a participant may file a designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any cash from the participant's account under the Plan in the event of such participant's death prior to exercise of the option. If a participant is married and the designated beneficiary is not the spouse, spousal consent will be required for such designation to be effective.
(b) Such designation of beneficiary may be changed by the participant at any time by notice in a form determined by the Administrator. In the event of the death of a participant and in the absence of a beneficiary validly designated under the Plan who is living at the time of such participant's death, the Company will deliver such shares and/or cash to the executor or administrator of the estate of the participant, or if no such executor or administrator has been appointed (to the knowledge of the Company), the Company, in its discretion, may deliver such shares and/or cash to the spouse or to any one or more dependents or relatives of the participant, or if no spouse, dependent or relative is known to the Company, then to such other person as the Company may designate.
(c) All beneficiary designations will be in such form and manner as the Administrator may designate from time to time.
16. . Neither payroll deductions credited to a participant's account nor any rights with regard to the exercise of an option or to receive shares of Common Stock under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise disposed of in any way (other than by will, the laws of descent and distribution or as provided in Section 15 hereof) by the participant. Any such attempt at assignment, transfer, pledge or other disposition will be without effect, except that the Company may treat such act as an election to withdraw funds from an Offering Period in accordance with Section 10 hereof.
Transferability
17. . The Company may use all payroll deductions received or held by it under the Plan for any corporate purpose, and the Company will not be obligated to segregate such payroll deductions. Until shares of Common Stock are issued, participants will only have the rights of an unsecured creditor with respect to such shares.
Use of Funds
18. . Individual accounts will be maintained for each participant in the Plan. Statements of account will be given to participating Employees at least annually, which statements will set forth the amounts of payroll deductions, the Purchase Price, the number of shares of Common Stock purchased and the remaining cash balance, if any.
Reports
19. .
Adjustments, Dissolution, Liquidation, Merger or Change in Control
(a) . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Common Stock, other securities, or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase, or exchange of Common Stock or other securities of the Company, or other change in the corporate structure of the Company affecting the Common Stock occurs, the Administrator, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, will, in such manner as it may deem equitable, adjust the number and class of Common Stock which may be delivered under the Plan, the Purchase Price per share and the number of shares of Common Stock covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised, and the numerical limits of Sections 7 and 13.
Adjustments
(b) . In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, any Offering Period then in progress will be shortened by setting a New Exercise Date, and will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed dissolution or liquidation, unless provided otherwise by the Administrator. The New Exercise Date will be before the date of the Company's proposed dissolution or liquidation. The Administrator will notify each participant in writing, at least ten (10) business days prior to the New Exercise Date, that the Exercise Date for the participant's option has been changed to the New Exercise Date and that the participant's option will be exercised automatically on the New Exercise Date, unless prior to such date the participant has withdrawn from the Offering Period as provided in Section 10 hereof.
Dissolution or Liquidation
(c) . In the event of a merger or Change in Control, each outstanding option will be assumed or an equivalent option substituted by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation. In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the option, the Offering Period with respect to which such option relates will be shortened by setting a New Exercise Date and will end on the New Exercise Date. The New Exercise Date will occur before the date of the Company's proposed merger or Change in Control. The Administrator will notify each participant in writing, at least ten (10) business days prior to the New Exercise Date, that the Exercise Date for the participant's option has been changed to the New Exercise Date and that the participant's option will be exercised automatically on the New Exercise Date, unless prior to such date the participant has withdrawn from the Offering Period as provided in Section 10 hereof.
Merger or Change in Control
20. .
Amendment or Termination
(a) The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan, or any part thereof, at any time and for any reason; provided, however, that adding additional shares available for sale under the Plan (other than pursuant to Section 19(a)) shall require stockholder approval. If the Plan is terminated, the Administrator, in its discretion, may elect to terminate all outstanding Offering Periods either immediately or upon completion of the purchase of shares of Common Stock on the next Exercise Date (which may be sooner than originally scheduled, if determined by the Administrator in its discretion), or may elect to permit Offering Periods to expire in accordance with their terms (and subject to any adjustment pursuant to Section 19). If the Offering Periods are terminated prior to expiration, all amounts then credited to participants' accounts which have not been used to purchase shares of Common Stock will be returned to the participants (without interest thereon, except as otherwise required under local laws) as soon as administratively practicable.
(b) Without stockholder consent and without limiting Section 20(a), the Administrator will be entitled to change the Offering Periods, limit the frequency and/or number of changes in the amount withheld during an Offering Period, establish the exchange ratio applicable to amounts withheld in a currency other than U.S. dollars, permit payroll withholding in excess of the amount designated by a participant in order to adjust for delays or mistakes in the Company's processing of properly completed withholding elections, establish reasonable waiting and adjustment periods and/or accounting and crediting procedures to ensure that amounts applied toward the purchase of Common Stock for each participant properly correspond with amounts withheld from the participant's Compensation, and establish such other limitations or procedures as the Administrator determines in its sole discretion advisable which are consistent with the Plan.
(c) In the event the Administrator determines that the ongoing operation of the Plan may result in unfavorable financial accounting consequences, the Administrator may, in its discretion and, to the extent necessary or desirable, modify, amend or terminate the Plan to reduce or eliminate such accounting consequence including, but not limited to:
(i) amending the Plan to conform with the safe harbor definition under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123(R), including with respect to an Offering Period underway at the time;
(ii) altering the Purchase Price for any Offering Period including an Offering Period underway at the time of the change in Purchase Price;
(iii) shortening any Offering Period by setting a New Exercise Date, including an Offering Period underway at the time of the Administrator action;
(iv) reducing the maximum percentage of Compensation a participant may elect to set aside as payroll deductions; and
(v) reducing the maximum number of shares a participant may purchase during any Offering Period.
Such modifications or amendments will not require stockholder approval or the consent of any Plan participants.
21. . All notices or other communications by a participant to the Company under or in connection with the Plan will be deemed to have been duly given when received in the form and manner specified by the Company at the location, or by the person, designated by the Company for the receipt thereof.
Notices
22. . Shares of Common Stock will not be issued with respect to an option unless the exercise of such option and the issuance and delivery of such shares pursuant thereto will comply with all applicable provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the shares may then be listed, and will be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
As a condition to the exercise of an option, the Company may require the person exercising such option to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise that the shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required by any of the aforementioned applicable provisions of law.
23. . The Plan will become effective upon the earlier to occur of its adoption by the Board or its approval by the stockholders of the Company. It will continue in effect for a term of twenty (20) years, unless sooner terminated under Section 20.
Term of Plan
24. . The Administrator shall have the discretion to require reimbursement from any Plan participant in full for any liability that the Company or the Employer incurs towards any tax paid or payable in respect to participant's participation in the Plan, the grant of any option pursuant to the Plan, or the exercise of participant's option, provided that such reimbursement is provided for in the subscription agreement. The Company may require security for such reimbursement of taxes as a precondition to participant participating in the Plan, the grant of any option, or the exercise of this option on behalf of Participant. The Administrator shall have the authority to approve additional documents or forms which may be requested by the Company for such security, collection or otherwise for reimbursement of such taxes to the Company.
Reimbursement of Taxes
25. . The Plan will be subject to approval by the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months after the date the Plan is adopted by the Board. Such stockholder approval will be obtained in the manner and to the degree required under Applicable Laws.
Stockholder Approval


