FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20020806172700.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ---------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 6, 2002 ---------------- PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) New Jersey 001-16707 22-3703799 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File) (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) Number) Identification No.) 751 Broad Street Newark, New Jersey 07102 (Address of principal executive offices and zip code) (973) 802-6000 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Item 5. Other Information. On August 6, 2002, Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey Corporation, issued a press release announcing second quarter 2002 results, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.0 and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. Prudential Financial, Inc. furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.1, the Quarterly Financial Supplement for its Financial Services Businesses for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002. -2-
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Date: August 6, 2002 Prudential Financial, Inc. By: /s/ Anthony S. Piszel -------------------------------------------- Name: Anthony S. Piszel Title: Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) -3-
Exhibit Index Exhibit No. Description - ---------- ---------------------------------------------------------- 99.0 Press Release of Prudential Financial, Inc., dated August 6,2002. 99.1 Quarterly Financial Supplement for the Financial Services Businesses of Prudential Financial, Inc. for the Quarterly Period ended June 30, 2002. -4-

For Immediate Release Contact: Bob DeFillippo August 6, 2002 (973) 802-4149 After 4 p.m. PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. ANNOUNCES SECOND QUARTER 2002 RESULTS Newark, NJ - Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today reported second quarter 2002 after-tax adjusted operating income for its Financial Services Businesses of $304 million, compared to $260 million for the second quarter of 2001. Adjusted operating income was 54 cents per share of Common Stock for the second quarter of 2002, compared to 45 cents per Common share in the second quarter of 2001 on an equivalent share basis, which assumes that shares issued in the Company's demutualization on December 18, 2001 and its initial public offering of Common Stock were outstanding for the entire 2001 period. Second quarter 2002 results include the contribution of Gibraltar Life, which the Company acquired in April 2001 and included in its results for two months of last year's second quarter. For the first half of 2002, after-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $636 million ($1.12 per Common share) compared to $556 million (95 cents per equivalent Common share) for the first half of 2001. "Prudential Financial's diversity of earnings and expense reduction efforts have helped keep our second quarter results on track," said Chairman and CEO Arthur F. Ryan. "Our International division, including the contribution of Gibraltar Life, continues to produce returns consistent with our goals. Expense reductions, especially in our U.S. Consumer division, are mitigating the impact of difficult equity market conditions on some of our businesses. Given current equity market conditions, we believe that Prudential will achieve Common Stock earnings per share at the low end of our previously expected range of $2.10 to $2.30 for the year 2002, based on after-tax adjusted operating income. This assumes that equity market conditions stabilize over the balance of the year, including essentially no further decline in the S&P 500 index," Ryan said. This expectation is subject to change if actual equity market conditions differ from this assumption and as discussed under "Forward Looking Statements" below. Ryan added, "We are also pursuing additional expense reduction opportunities in our other divisions and will realign the management structure of some of our businesses during the third quarter." After-tax adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains, net of losses and related adjustments, and results from divested businesses, as well as demutualization costs and expenses and the mutual insurance company tax benefit for the year-ago quarter. Net income of the Financial Services Businesses, which includes the
foregoing items, amounted to $95 million for the second quarter of 2002 compared to $250 million for the year-ago quarter. Net income was 19 cents per Common share for the second quarter of 2002, compared to 43 cents per equivalent Common share in the year-ago quarter. Net income of the Financial Services Businesses was $358 million (65 cents per Common share) for the first half of 2002, compared to net income of $653 million ($1.12 per equivalent Common share) for the first half of 2001. In the following business-level discussion, adjusted operating income refers to pre-tax results. Financial Services Businesses Prudential Financial's Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of its Financial Services Businesses, which consist of its U.S. Consumer, Employee Benefits, International and Asset Management divisions and its Corporate and Other operations. U.S. Consumer division reported pre-tax adjusted operating income of $117 million for the second quarter of 2002, an increase of $35 million from $82 million in the year-ago quarter. Our Individual Life Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $130 million for the current quarter, a $43 million increase over the year-ago quarter, as we realized savings from our field management and agency restructuring program. The year-ago quarter included $12 million of implementation costs for this program. Our Private Client Group segment reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $29 million for the current quarter, compared to a $98 million loss in the year-ago quarter, which includes $39 million of employee termination and facilities consolidation costs. The decrease in the segment's loss resulted primarily from our cost reduction measures, which more than offset declines in transaction revenue and net investment income. Our Retail Investments segment reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $2 million in the current quarter compared to adjusted operating income of $60 million in the year-ago quarter. Results for the current quarter included a $48 million charge for additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs to reflect our lower estimate of profitability from annuities due to equity market conditions. Lower asset-based fees due to market value declines also contributed to the decline in the segment's adjusted operating income. Our Property and Casualty Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $18 million in the current quarter, a $15 million decline from the year-ago quarter. During the current quarter, the segment realized $43 million in stop-loss reinsurance recoveries, prior year reserve releases, and a change in our estimate of refunds or credits due to certain New Jersey automobile policyholders under that state's profit regulations, while the benefit from these items in the year-ago quarter was $58 million. International division pre-tax adjusted operating income for the second quarter of 2002 increased $56 million, to $176 million from $120 million in the year-ago quarter. The International Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $187 million for the quarter, representing a $45 million increase over the year-ago quarter, including a $42 million greater contribution from Gibraltar Life, for which last year's second quarter
included its initial two months results. Gibraltar Life's $101 million adjusted operating income for the current quarter reflects charges from refinements of estimates, primarily of amounts due policyholders, and gains from policy surrenders. The net effect of these items reduced adjusted operating income by $20 million. Gibraltar Life's results also reflect continued favorable mortality experience. Adjusted operating income from our international insurance operations other than Gibraltar Life was $86 million, up $3 million from the year-ago quarter, which benefited from an $8 million reserve refinement. The current quarter's results reflect a negative impact of $6 million, versus the year-ago quarter, from currency fluctuations. Excluding the impact of the reserve refinement in last year's quarter and currency fluctuations, these operations would have had a 23% increase in adjusted operating income versus the year-ago quarter. Employee Benefits division pre-tax adjusted operating income amounted to $94 million in the second quarter of 2002, an increase of $42 million from $52 million in the year-ago quarter. Our Group Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $36 million in the current quarter and $9 million in the year-ago quarter, which included a $13 million net charge for changes in our estimates of incurred but unreported claims and return premiums. The segment's current quarter results benefited from improved disability claims experience. Adjusted operating income from our Other Employee Benefits segment increased $15 million, to $58 million from $43 million in the year-ago quarter, primarily from our guaranteed products business, which benefited from income of $30 million from a mortgage prepayment during the current quarter, partially offset by lower margins from investment results. Asset Management division pre-tax adjusted operating income amounted to $56 million in the second quarter of 2002, an increase of $24 million from $32 million in the year-ago quarter. Despite market value declines in our equity assets under management, adjusted operating income of our Investment Management and Advisory Services segment of $33 million in the current quarter increased $10 million from the year-ago quarter, which reflected $6 million of employee termination and facilities consolidation costs. The segment's current quarter results reflected lower expense levels, primarily due to asset performance-based compensation. Assets managed by the Asset Management division were $284 billion at June 30, 2002, a decrease of $16 billion from a year earlier. The decrease reflects the market value declines in our equity assets under management and our sale, during the first quarter of 2002, of a portion of our quantitative-style equity asset management to a third party. Adjusted operating income from our Other Asset Management segment increased $14 million, to $23 million in the current quarter from $9 million in the year-ago quarter, which reflected $12 million of employee termination and facilities consolidation costs. Corporate and Other operations resulted in pre-tax adjusted operating income of $35 million in the second quarter of 2002, a decrease of $40 million from $75 million in the year-ago quarter which included a benefit of $48 million from hedging retained at the corporate level.
Assets under management and administration amounted to $557 billion at June 30, 2002, compared to $606 billion a year earlier and $590 billion at December 31, 2001. Net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the second quarter of 2002 was $95 million and included $343 million of realized investment losses, net of related adjustments, compared to realized investment gains, net of related adjustments, of $75 million in the year-ago quarter. The realized losses in the current quarter included losses of $254 million representing fluctuations in value of hedging instruments covering our foreign currency and interest rate risks. Our currency hedging program mitigates the risk that unfavorable rate changes will reduce dollar equivalent earnings of our Japanese insurance operations. The mark-to-market from this program, which is included in quarterly earnings, is subject to volatility, particularly during periods of significant exchange rate movements. Realized losses also included losses of $83 million on the disposal of substantially all remaining WorldCom holdings. Additional realized losses during the current quarter from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities amounted to $137 million. The realized losses during the quarter were partially offset by realized gains from fixed maturities. Net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the year-ago quarter, which included demutualization costs and expenses of $117 million, was $250 million. Closed Block Business Prudential's Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of its Closed Block Business. The Closed Block Business, which represents results of our Traditional Participating Products segment prior to the demutualization, includes our in-force participating life insurance and annuity policies, and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies. The Closed Block Business reported losses from operations before income taxes of $254 million for the second quarter of 2002 and $103 million for the year-ago quarter. The increased loss was primarily due to declines in net investment income and realized investment gains and losses. Closed Block Business results included net realized investment losses of $177 million in the current quarter, including losses of $77 million on disposal of substantially all remaining WorldCom holdings, and $114 million in the year-ago quarter. The Closed Block Business reported a second quarter 2002 net loss of $163 million, compared to a net loss of $55 million for the year-ago quarter. For the first half of 2002, the Closed Block Business reported a $429 million loss from operations before income taxes, compared to a $29 million loss for the first half of 2001.
The Closed Block Business reported net losses of $273 million for the first half of 2002 and $21 million for the first half of 2001. Consolidated Results There is no legal separation of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock are both common stockholders of Prudential Financial, Inc. On a consolidated basis, which includes the results of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, Prudential Financial, Inc. reported a net loss of $68 million for the second quarter of 2002 and net income of $195 million for the year-ago quarter, and reported net income of $85 million for the first half of 2002 and $632 million for the first half of 2001. Share Repurchase Program During the second quarter of 2002, the Company repurchased approximately 3.2 million shares of its Common Stock, at a total cost of $106 million. This included 1.6 million shares repurchased and reissued directly to certain Company deferred compensation plans. Forward-Looking Statements Certain of the statements included in this release, including (but not limited to) those in the third paragraph hereof, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U. S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "assumes," "estimates," "projects," or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including without limitation: general economic, market and political conditions, including the performance of financial markets, interest rate fluctuations and the continuing impact of the events of September 11, 2001; volatility in the securities markets; reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims; our exposure to contingent liabilities; catastrophe losses; investment losses and defaults; changes in our claims-paying or credit ratings; competition in our product lines and for personnel; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; risks to our international operations; the impact of changing regulation or adverse
litigation results; and changes in tax law. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and is under no obligation to, update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document. The information referred to above, as well as the risks of our businesses described in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2002, should be considered by readers when reviewing forward-looking statements contained in this release. Earnings Conference Call Members of Prudential's senior management will host a conference call on Wednesday, August 7, 2002, at 11 a.m. ET, to discuss with the investment community the Company's second quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Company's Investor Relations Web site at: http://www.investor.prudential.com. Please log on fifteen minutes early in the event necessary software needs to be downloaded. The call will remain on the Investor Relations Web site for replay through August 22. Institutional investors, analysts, and other members of the professional financial community are invited to listen to the call and participate in Q&A by dialing (888) 276-9996 (domestic callers) or (612) 288-0337 (international callers). All others are encouraged to dial into the conference call in listen-only mode, by dialing (800) 230-1766 (domestic callers) or (612) 332-0923 (international callers). To listen to a replay of the conference call starting at 3:15 p.m. on August 7, dial (800) 475-6701 (domestic callers) or (320) 365-3844 (international callers). The access code for the replay is 642874. Prudential Financial companies serve individual and institutional customers worldwide and include The Prudential Insurance Company of America, one of the largest life insurance companies in the U.S. These companies offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, property and casualty insurance, mutual funds, annuities, pension and retirement related services and administration, asset management, securities brokerage, banking and trust services, real estate brokerage franchises and relocation services. For more information, visit www.prudential.com. -Prudential-
Financial Highlights (in millions, except per share data) See footnotes on page 4. Page 1
Financial Services Businesses Division Highlights (in millions) See footnotes on page 4. Page 2
Financial Services Businesses Division Highlights (in millions) See footnotes on page 4. Page 3
(1) Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure that excludes realized investment gains, net of losses and related adjustments; results of divested businesses; and demutualization costs and expenses. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, and for the divisions of the Financial Services Businesses, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and exclude these items as well. Adjusted operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses. (2) Income taxes applicable to pre-tax adjusted operating income, excluding mutual insurance company tax. (3) Prudential Financial, Inc.'s initial public offering and the demutualization of The Prudential Insurance Company of America became effective on December 18, 2001. For the 2001 periods, earnings per share data are presented on a pro forma basis that assumes that shares issued in the initial public offering, including those issued as a result of the subsequent exercise by underwriters of options to acquire additional shares, and shares distributed as demutualization consideration to policyholders, were outstanding for all such periods. Earnings used in per-share calculations for the 2001 periods have not been adjusted to reflect the demutualization or related transactions, including the establishment of the Closed Block Business. For periods subsequent to 2001, earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding. Stock options are included in the number of diluted shares for the period they are outstanding based on the treasury stock method. Net income for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for allocation of such expenses. For periods subsequent to the date of demutualization, the net income of each business is modified for cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses, which are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent actual administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, these differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments are used to adjust net income to determine the earnings available to the Common Stock and the Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. (4) As a result of the establishment of the Closed Block Business concurrently with the demutualization, attributed equity as of the end of periods prior to December 31, 2001 is not comparable to attributed equity at that date and thereafter and, therefore, is not presented for periods prior to 2002. (5) International division results include Gibraltar Life from April 2, 2001, the date of reorganization, through May 31, 2002. (6) Statutory first year premiums and deposits. (7) Amounts exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage issued under our Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance contract and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts. (8) Annualized new business premiums. Actual amounts reflect the impact of currency exchange fluctuations. Constant exchange rate amounts are based on the average exchange rates for the year ended December 31, 2001. (9) Reflects reclassification of amounts by client category as of January 1, 2002, based upon internal management criteria, which reduced the amount attributed to retail customers by $3.3 billion and increased the amounts attributed to institutional customers and the general account by $2.8 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively. (10) Reflects, as of June 30, 2002, Asset Management division's assumption of management of $3.5 billion of assets of International Insurance operations which were previously reflected in International assets. (11) Includes assets of International Insurance operations and International retail customers managed by the Asset Management division. (12) Amounts shown for the Closed Block Business for the 2001 periods represent results of the Traditional Participating Products segment. Results for the 2002 periods for the Closed Block Business reflect the transfer of $5.6 billion of net assets to the Financial Services Businesses at the date of demutualization. (13) Beginning in 2002, management no longer uses adjusted operating income as the measure to assess operating performance of the Closed Block Business. Consequently, only GAAP basis results of the Closed Block Business are presented for all periods. (14) Primarily general account assets of International Insurance operations other than those managed by the Asset Management division.

Prudential [LOGO] Financial Prudential Financial, Inc. (PRU) - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Quarterly Financial Supplement FINANCIAL SERVICES BUSINESSES SECOND QUARTER 2002 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Reference is made to Prudential Financial, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for general information, and consolidated financial information, regarding Prudential Financial, Inc., including its Closed Block Business. - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- i August 6, 2002
Prudential [LOGO] Financial Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 CONTENTS ii
Prudential [LOGO] Financial Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except per share data) (1) Income taxes applicable to pre-tax adjusted operating income, which excludes the mutual insurance company tax for periods prior to demutualization. (2) Demutualization costs and expenses for the quarter ended December 31, 2001, include demutualization consideration of $340 million paid to former Canadian branch policyholders. (3) As a result of the establishment of the Closed Block Business concurrently with the demutualization on December 18, 2001, attributed equity as of the end of periods prior to December 31, 2001 is not comparable to attributed equity at that date and thereafter and, therefore, Operating Return on Average Equity is not presented for periods prior to 2002. (4) Amounts shown for the Closed Block Business represent results of the Traditional Participating Products segment for periods prior to effective date of demutualization. Page 1
Prudential [LOGO] Financial Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions, except per share data) (1) As of end of period. (2) Guaranteed minority interest in Trust holding solely debentures of Parent, as reported in combined balance sheet. Page 2
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial OPERATIONS HIGHLIGHTS (1) As of end of period. (2) At fair market value. (3) Reflects reclassification of amounts by client category as of January 1, 2002, based on internal management criteria, which reduced the amount attributed to retail customers by $3.3 billion and increased the amounts attributed to institutional customers and the general account by $2.8 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively. (4) Reflects, as of June 30, 2002, Asset Management division's assumption of management of $3.5 billion of assets of International Insurance operations which were previously reflected in International assets. (5) Includes assets of International Insurance operations and International retail customer assets managed by Asset Management division. (6) Primarily general account assets of International Insurance operations other than those managed by Asset Management division. (7) Includes International customer client assets. (8) Statutory first year premiums and deposits for Individual Life Insurance segment products by third-party channel. (9) Gross sales of mutual funds, wrap-fee products, and annuities by third party channel. Page 3
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial COMBINED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - FINANCIAL SERVICES BUSINESSES (in millions) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses and related adjustments, and revenues of divested businesses. Benefits and expenses exclude charges related to realized investment gains, net of losses, benefits and expenses of divested businesses, and demutualization costs and expenses. Page 4
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial COMBINED BALANCE SHEETS - FINANCIAL SERVICES BUSINESSES (in millions) Page 5
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudentail [LOGO] Financial FINANCIAL SERVICES BUSINESSES COMBINING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - BY DIVISION (in millions) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses and related adjustments, and revenues of divested businesses. Benefits and expenses exclude charges related to realized investment gains, net of losses, benefits and expenses of divested businesses, and demutualization costs and expenses. Page 6
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial FINANCIAL SERVICES BUSINESSES COMBINING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - BY DIVISION (in millions) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses and related adjustments, and revenues of divested businesses. Benefits and expenses exclude charges related to realized investment gains, net of losses, benefits and expenses of divested businesses, and demutualization costs and expenses. Page 7
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial FINANCIAL SERVICES BUSINESSES COMBINING BALANCE SHEETS - BY DIVISION (in millions) Page 8
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial SHORT TERM DEBT - FINANCIAL SERVICES BUSINESSES (in millions) (a) Includes Prudential Funding, LLC. Page 9
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial LONG TERM DEBT (in millions) (a) Includes Prudential Funding, LLC. Page 10
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial COMBINED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - U. S. CONSUMER DIVISION (in millions) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Benefits and expenses exclude charges related to realized investment gains, net of losses. Page 11
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial COMBINING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - U. S. CONSUMER DIVISION (in millions) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Benefits and expenses exclude charges related to realized investment gains, net of losses. (2) Includes wrap-fee products and unit investment trusts. Page 12
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial COMBINING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - U. S. CONSUMER DIVISION (in millions) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Benefits and expenses exclude charges related to realized investment gains, net of losses. (2) Includes wrap-fee products and unit investment trusts. Page 13
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial U. S. CONSUMER DIVISION - LIFE INSURANCE SALES AND RETAIL INVESTMENTS SEGMENT MUTUAL FUNDS, WRAP-FEE PRODUCTS AND ANNUITY SALES AND ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT (in millions) (1) Statutory first year premiums and deposits. (2) The quarter ended March 31, 2002 includes decreases in policyholder account balances of $45 million for variable annuities and $56 million for fixed annuities due to the distribution of policy credits, subsequently paid out in cash, as demutualization consideration in connection with the Company's demutualization. The quarter ended December 31, 2001 includes increases in policyholder account values of $429 million for variable annuities and $157 million for fixed annuities as a result of policyholder credits issued in connection with the Company's demutualization, as well as a decrease in policyholder account values of $50 million in fixed annuities transferred to the Closed Block Business upon its establishment. Page 14
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial U. S. CONSUMER DIVISION - LIFE INSURANCE, RETAIL INVESTMENTS SEGMENT MUTUAL FUNDS, WRAP-FEE PRODUCTS, AND ANNUITY SALES BY DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL (in millions) (1) Statutory first year premiums and deposits. (2) Other than money market. Page 15
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial U. S. CONSUMER DIVISION - ACCOUNT VALUE ACTIVITY (in millions) (1) The quarter ended March 31, 2002 includes $314 million of policyholder credits, issued in connection with the Company's demutualization, applied to customer account balances held in the separate account. (2) The quarter ended March 31, 2002 includes a decrease in policyholder account balances of $101 million due to the distribution of policy credits, subsequently paid out in cash, as demutualization consideration in connection with the Company's demutualization. The quarter ended December 31, 2001 includes an increase in policyholder account values of $586 million as a result of policyholder credits issued in connection with the Company's demutualization, as well as a decrease in policyholder account values of $50 million transferred to the Closed Block Business upon its establishment. Page 16
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Prudential [LOGO] Financial Second Quarter 2002 U. S. CONSUMER DIVISION - DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS (in millions) Page 17
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Prudential [LOGO] Financial Second Quarter 2002 U. S. CONSUMER DIVISION - SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION FOR INDIVIDUAL LIFE INSURANCE AND PRIVATE CLIENT GROUP (dollar amounts in millions) (1) Annualized, for interim reporting periods. (2) Calculated on a trailing 12 month basis excluding Consumer Banking revenue. Page 18
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Prudential [LOGO] Financial Second Quarter 2002 U. S. CONSUMER DIVISION - SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION FOR PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE (dollar amounts in millions) (1) Based on statutory data. (2) Represents ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses to net earned premium. (3) Represents ratio of operating expenses to net written premium. (4) Represents the sum of loss ratio and expense ratio above. (5) Represents losses and loss adjustment expenses attributable to catastrophes that are included in the combined ratio. We classify catastrophes as those events that are declared catastrophes by Property Claims Services, which is an industry organization that declares and tracks all property-related catastrophes causing insured property damage in the United States. (6) Accident year combined ratios for annual periods reflect the combined ratios for accidents that occur in the indicated calendar year, restated to reflect subsequent changes in loss estimates for those claims based on cumulative loss data through the most recent balance sheet date. Accident year combined ratios for interim periods reflect the combined ratios for policies written in those periods, based on cumulative loss data through the respective balance sheet date of the indicated year. These ratios reflect any recoveries from stop-loss reinsurance contracts during the indicated periods. Page 19
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial COMBINED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS DIVISION (in millions) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Benefits and expenses exclude charges related to realized investment gains, net of losses. Page 20
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial COMBINING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS DIVISION (in millions) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Benefits and expenses exclude charges related to realized investment gains, net of losses. Page 21
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial EMPLOYEE BENEFITS DIVISION - SALES RESULTS AND ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT (in millions) (1) Sales results for periods prior to 2002 give effect to quarterly allocation consistent with our current reporting practices. (2) Includes long-term care products. (3) Includes increases to account values of $348 million in the six months ended June 30, 2002, $247 million in the quarter ended June 30, 2002 and $101 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2002, added to customer accounts due to common stock received as demutualization consideration. The quarter ended March 31, 2002 also includes $448 million added to customer accounts from inclusion of amounts not previously reflected in this segment. The quarter ended December 31, 2001 includes an increase in account values of $433 million as a result of policyholder credits issued in connection with the Company's demutualization. (4) Represents changes in asset balances for externally managed accounts. In addition, the quarter ended December 31, 2001 includes an increase in account values of $181 million representing cumulative conversions of client account balances to products currently included in this division as well as $2 million of policyholder credits issued in connection with the Company's demutualization. Page 22
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial EMPLOYEE BENEFITS DIVISION - SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION (dollar amounts in millions) (1) As of end of period. (2) Group disability amounts include long-term care products. (3) Before returns of premiums to participating policyholders for favorable claims experience. Page 23
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial COMBINED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - INTERNATIONAL DIVISION (in millions) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Benefits and expenses exclude charges related to realized investment gains, net of losses. Page 24
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial COMBINING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - INTERNATIONAL DIVISION (in millions) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Benefits and expenses exclude charges related to realized investment gains, net of losses. (2) Results of Gibraltar Life are included from April 2, 2001, the date of reorganization, through May 31, 2002. Page 25
Prudential Financial, Inc. Prudential [LOGO] Financial Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 INTERNATIONAL DIVISION - SALES RESULTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION (dollar amounts in millions unless otherwise noted) (1) Translated based on applicable average exchange rate for the period shown. (2) Results of Gibraltar Life are included from April 2, 2001, the date of reorganization, through May 31,2002. (3) Translated based on average exchange rates for the year ended December 31, 2001. Page 26
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Prudential [LOGO] Financial Second Quarter 2002 INTERNATIONAL DIVISION - SALES RESULTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION (dollar amounts in millions unless otherwise noted) (1) Excluding Gibraltar Life. (2) Excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors. Page 27
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial COMBINED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - ASSET MANAGEMENT DIVISION (in millions) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Page 28
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial COMBINING STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS - ASSET MANAGEMENT DIVISION (in millions) (1) Revenues exclude realized investment gains, net of losses. Page 29
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT - INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AND ADVISORY SERVICES SEGMENT (in billions) (1) Reflects reclassification of amounts by client category as of January 1, 2002, based on internal management criteria, which reduced the amount attributed to retail customers by $3.3 billion and increased the amounts attributed to institutional customers and the general account by $2.8 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively. (2) Reflects reclassification of amounts by asset gatherer category as of January 1, 2002, based on internal management criteria, which reduced the amount attributed to assets gathered by Asset Management division sales force and increased the amount attributed to other institutional assets under management by $4.0 billion. Page 30
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality(1): (1) Excludes investments of securities brokerage, securities trading, banking operations, assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties, and separate account assets for which the customer assumes risks of ownership. (2) Other long-term investments consist of real estate and non-real estate related investments in joint ventures and partnerships, investment real estate held through direct ownership, our interest in separate account investments and other miscellaneous investments. (3) Includes invested assets of securities brokerage, securities trading, and banking operations. Excludes assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties, and separate account assets for which the customer assumes risks of ownership. Page 31
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial FINANCIAL SERVICES BUSINESSES INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO COMPOSITION (in millions) (1) Excludes investments of securities brokerage, securities trading, banking operations, assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties, and separate account assets for which the customer assumes risks of ownership. (2) Other long-term investments consist of real estate and non-real estate related investments in joint ventures and partnerships, investment real estate held through direct ownership, our interest in separate account investments and other miscellaneous investments. Page 32
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial FINANCIAL SERVICES BUSINESSES INVESTMENT RESULTS (in millions) (1) Excludes investments of securities brokerage, securities trading, banking operations, assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties, and separate account assets for which the customer assumes risks of ownership. (2) Investment income of securities brokerage, securities trading, and banking operations. (3) Yields are annualized and based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and commercial loans. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for commercial loans are calculated gross of any allowance for losses on commercial loans. Results for 2002 period reflect investments of Gibraltar Life, which was acquired in April 2001. Page 33
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Pudential [LOGO] Financial FINANCIAL SERVICES BUSINESSES INVESTMENT RESULTS - JAPANESE INSURANCE OPERATIONS (in millions) (1) Yields are annualized and based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and commercial loans. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for commercial loans are calculated gross of any allowance for losses on commercial loans. Results for 2002 period reflect investments of Gibraltar Life, which was acquired in April 2001. Page 34
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Prudential [LOGO] Financial Second Quarter 2002 FINANCIAL SERVICES BUSINESSES INVESTMENT RESULTS - EXCLUDING JAPANESE INSURANCE OPERATIONS (in millions) (1) Excludes investments of securities brokerage, securities trading, banking operations, assets of our asset management operations managed for third parties, and separate account assets for which the customer assumes risks of ownership. (2) Yields are annualized and based on quarterly average carrying values except for fixed maturities, equity securities and commercial loans. Yields for fixed maturities are based on amortized cost. Yields for equity securities are based on cost. Yields for commercial loans are calculated gross of any allowance for losses on commercial loans. Page 35
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS 1. Attributed Equity: - ---------------------- Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business. 2. Adjusted operating income before income taxes: - -------------------------------------------------- Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure that excludes realized investment gains, net of losses and related adjustments; results of divested businesses; and demutualization costs and expenses. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, and for the divisions of the Financial Services Businesses, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and exclude these items as well. Adjusted operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses. 3. After-tax adjusted operating income: - ---------------------------------------- Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes. 4. Assets Under Management: - ---------------------------- Fair market value or account value of assets which Prudential manages directly in proprietary products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, in separate accounts, wrap-fee products and the general account, and assets invested in investment options included in the Company's products that are managed by third party sub-managers (i.e., the non-proprietary investment options in the Company's products). 5. Book value per share of Common Stock: - ----------------------------------------- Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis. 6. Borrowings - General Corporate Purposes: - -------------------------------------------- Amounts used for corporate purposes including uses for cash flow timing mismatches, and investments in equity and debt securities of subsidiaries including amounts needed for regulatory capital purposes. 7. Borrowings - Investment Related: - ------------------------------------ Debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including real estate, real estate related assets held in consolidated joint ventures, and institutional spread lending portfolios. 8. Borrowings - Securities Business Related: - -------------------------------------------- Debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker-dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations. 9. Borrowings - Specified Other Businesses: - -------------------------------------------- Borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, real estate franchises, and relocation services. 10. Client Assets: - ------------------ Fair market value of assets in client accounts of Prudential Securities and Prudential Bank, and trust client accounts, that are not included in Assets Under Management. Prudential does not receive a management or administrative fee on these assets, but may receive a fee for executing trades, custody or recordkeeping services. Page 36
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS 11. Earned Premiums: - -------------------- The portion of a premium, net of any amount ceded, that represents coverage already provided or that belongs to the insurer based on the part of the policy period that has passed. 12. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock: - --------------------------------------- Prudential Financial, Inc.'s initial public offering and the demutualization of The Prudential Insurance Company of America became effective on December 18, 2001. For the 2001 periods, earnings per share data are presented on a pro forma basis that assumes that shares issued in the initial public offering, including those issued as a result of the subsequent exercise by underwriters of options to acquire additional shares, and shares distributed as demutualization consideration to policyholders, were outstanding for all such periods. Earnings used in per-share calculations for the 2001 periods have not been adjusted to reflect the demutualization or related transactions, including the establishment of the Closed Block Business. For periods subsequent to 2001, earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding. Stock options are included in the number of diluted shares for the periods they are outstanding based on the treasury stock method. Net income for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for allocation of such expenses. For periods subsequent to the date of demutualization, the net income of each business is modified for cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses, which are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent actual administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, these differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments are used to adjust net income to determine the earnings available to the Common Stock and the Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. 13. Financial Advisors (Domestic and International): - ---------------------------------------------------- Financial advisors and securities brokers in our securities operations. 14. Financial Advisor Productivity (Domestic): - ---------------------------------------------- Private Client Group total non-interest revenues, excluding revenues generated by the consumer bank and by the segment's retail trading operation divided by the average number of domestic Financial Advisors for the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized. 15. General Account: - -------------------- Invested assets and policyholder liabilities and reserves for which the Company bears the investment risk. Excludes assets recognized for statutory purposes that are specifically allocated to a separate account. General account assets also include assets of the parent company, Prudential Financial, Inc. 16. Gibraltar Life Advisors: - ---------------------------- Insurance representatives for Gibraltar Life. 17. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Administrative - ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Operating Expense Ratios: - ------------------------- Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income. 18. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Benefits Ratios: - ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income. 19. Insurance and Annuity Benefits: - ----------------------------------- Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses. 20. International Life Planners: - -------------------------------- Insurance agents in our insurance operations outside the United States, excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors. Page 37
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS 21. New annualized premiums: - ---------------------------- Premiums from new sales that are expected to be collected over a one year period. Group insurance new annualized premiums exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage under our Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance contract, and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts. 22. Non-recourse and Limited-recourse Debt: - ------------------------------------------- Limited and non-recourse borrowing is where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets. 23. Operating return on average equity: - --------------------------------------- Adjusted operating income after tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments. 24. Policy Persistency - Group Insurance: - ----------------------------------------- Percentage of the premiums in force at the end of the prior year that are still in force at the end of the period (excluding Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Prudential Employee Benefit Plan). 25. Policy Persistency - International Insurance: - ------------------------------------------------- 13 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their second policy year. 25 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their third policy year. 26. Prudential Agents: - ---------------------- Insurance agents in our insurance operations in the United States. 27. Prudential Agent productivity: - ---------------------------------- Commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents under contract for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. Excludes commissions on new sales by Prudential Agents hired or departed during the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized. 28. Ratio of corporate debt to total capitalization: - ---------------------------------------------------- For purposes of this ratio, we measure "debt" as the sum of borrowings for general corporate purposes and 20% of the stated aggregate liquidation amount of the Equity Security Units, and we measure "total capitalization" as the sum of equity excluding unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, corporate debt and the stated aggregate liquidation amount of the Equity Security Units. The ratio is calculated by dividing debt by total capitalization. 29. Redeemable Capital Securities: - ---------------------------------- Capital Trust Certificates of Prudential Financial Capital Trust I (element of Equity Security Units). 30. Separate Accounts: - ---------------------- Assets of our insurance companies allocated under certain policies and contracts that are segregated from the general account and other separate accounts. The policyholder or contractholder predominantly bears the risk of investments held in a separate account. 31. Wrap-Fee Products: - ---------------------- Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the customer are generally invested in other investment products such as mutual funds. Page 38
Prudential Financial, Inc. Quarterly Financial Supplement Second Quarter 2002 Prudential [LOGO] Financial RATINGS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION INSURANCE CLAIMS PAYING RATINGS as of August 6, 2002 * NR indicates not rated. INVESTOR INFORMATION: Corporate Offices: Investor Information Hotline: Prudential Financial, Inc. Dial 877-998-ROCK for additional printed 751 Broad Street information or inquiries. Newark, New Jersey 07102 Web Site: www.prudential.com Publicly Traded Securities: Common Stock of Prudential Financial, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PRU. Equity Security Units of Prudential Financial, Inc. are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PFA. Page 39


