FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20021021172609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.     Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.0, a Financial Supplement for the quarterly period ending June 30, 2002, presenting historical information for the Financial Services Businesses on a basis consistent with the Company's organizational changes announced in August 2002.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference is made to Prudential Financial, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for general information, and consolidated financial information, regarding Prudential Financial, Inc., including its Closed Block Business.
 
 
 
 
October 21, 2002
 
 
 
 
This Financial Supplement presents historical information for the Financial Services Businesses of Prudential Financial, Inc. on a basis consistent with the Company's reorganization announced in August, 2002. The realignment of the Company's divisions and segments as discussed below, had no impact on total adjusted operating income or net income of the Financial Services Businesses.
 
The Insurance Division consists of the following segments:
 
includes the former Individual Life Insurance segment, previously included in the U.S. Consumer division, and the individual annuity business, formerly reported within the Retail Investments segment of the U.S. Consumer division.
The Individual Life Insurance and Annuities segment
 
was previously reported within the Employee Benefits division.
The Group Insurance segment
 
was previously reported within the U.S. Consumer division.
The Property and Casualty Insurance segment
 
The Investment Division consists of the following segments:
 
includes the former Investment Management and Advisory Services segment of the Asset Management division, other than proprietary investment and syndication activities (now included in the Other Asset Management segment), and the mutual fund operations formerly reported in the Retail Investment segment of the U.S. Consumer division, net of relationship fees on money market funds now attributed to the Financial Advisory segment.
The Investment Management segment
 
includes the former Private Client Group segment, previously reported within the U.S. Consumer division, including certain relationship fees for money market funds formerly reported within the Retail Investments segment of the U.S. Consumer division and the equity securities sales and trading operations formerly reported in the Other Asset Management segment of the Asset Management division.
The Financial Advisory segment
 
includes the former Other Employee Benefits segment of the Employee Benefits division except for the real estate and relocation business (now reported within Corporate and Other operations).
The Retirement segment
 
includes the former Other Asset Management segment of the Asset Management division, except for equity sales and trading operations (now reported within the Financial Advisory segment), and the proprietary investment and syndication activities previously included in the Investment Management and Advisory Services segment of the Asset Management division.
The Other Asset Management segment
 
is a new name for the former International division, and includes the International Insurance and International Securities and Investments segments.
The International Insurance and Investments division
 
This Financial Supplement includes historical summaries of reclassified results and supplemental information for each division and for the segments that have been formed or redefined as indicated above, as well as Corporate and Other operations, for each of the six quarters through June 30, 2002 and the two years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999.
 
If you have any questions or need assistance with regard to this Financial Supplement, please contact the Investor Relations unit.
 
See following page for summary definitions of segments that have been formed or redefined.
 
Individual Life Insurance and Annuities Segment
 
Individual Life Insurance
 
(Former Individual Life Insurance segment)
 
Individual Annuities
 
(Individual Annuities business formerly reported within Retail Investments segment)
 
Investment Management Segment
 
Investment Management and Advisory Services
 
(Former Investment Management and Advisory Services segment EXCEPT proprietary investment and syndication activities)
 
Mutual Funds
 
(Mutual Funds business formerly reported within Retail Investments segment, net of relationship fees on money market funds now attributed to the Financial Advisory segment)
 
Financial Advisory Segment
 
Private Client Group
 
(Former Private Client Group segment PLUS certain relationship fees for money market funds formerly reported within the Retail Investments segment)
 
Equity Securities Sales and Trading
 
(Equity securities sales and trading operations formerly reported within Other Asset Management segment)
 
Retirement Segment
 
Retirement
 
(Former Other Employee Benefits segment EXCEPT for real estate and relocation business)
 
Other Asset Management Segment
 
Hedge Portfolios and Commercial Mortgage Securitization
 
(Former Other Asset Management segment EXCEPT for equity securities sales and trading activities)
 
Proprietary Investments and Syndications
 
(formerly reported within Investment Management and Advisory Services segment)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
 
1.    Attributed Equity:
 
Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business.
 
2.    Adjusted operating income before income taxes:
 
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure that excludes realized investment gains, net of losses and related adjustments; results of divested businesses; and demutualization costs and expenses. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, and for the divisions of the Financial Services Businesses, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and exclude these items as well. Adjusted operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
 
3.    After-tax adjusted operating income:
 
Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes.
 
4.    Assets Under Management:
 
Fair market value or account value of assets which Prudential manages directly in proprietary products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, in separate accounts, wrap-fee products and the general account, and assets invested in investment options included in the Company's products that are managed by third party sub-managers (i.e., the non-proprietary investment options in the Company's products).
 
5.    Book value per share of Common Stock:
 
Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis.
 
6.    BorrowingsGeneral Corporate Purposes:
 
Amounts used for corporate purposes including uses for cash flow timing mismatches, and investments in equity and debt securities of subsidiaries including amounts needed for regulatory capital purposes.
 
7.    BorrowingsInvestment Related:
 
Debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including real estate, real estate related assets held in consolidated joint ventures, and institutional spread lending portfolios.
 
8.    BorrowingsSecurities Business Related:
 
Debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker-dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations.
 
9.    BorrowingsSpecified Other Businesses:
 
Borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, real estate franchises, and relocation services.
 
10.    Client Assets:
 
Fair market value of assets in client accounts of Prudential Securities and Prudential Bank, and trust client accounts, that are not included in Assets Under Management. Prudential does not receive a management or administrative fee on these assets, but may receive a fee for executing trades, custody or recordkeeping services.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
 
11.    Earned Premiums:
 
The portion of a premium, net of any amount ceded, that represents coverage already provided or that belongs to the insurer based on the part of the policy period that has passed.
 
12.    Earnings Per Share of Common Stock:
 
Prudential Financial, Inc.'s initial public offering and the demutualization of The Prudential Insurance Company of America became effective on December 18, 2001. For the 2001 periods, earnings per share data are presented on a pro forma basis that assumes that shares issued in the initial public offering, including those issued as a result of the subsequent exercise by underwriters of options to acquire additional shares, and shares distributed as demutualization consideration to policyholders, were outstanding for all such periods. Earnings used in per-share calculations for the 2001 periods have not been adjusted to reflect the demutualization or related transactions, including the establishment of the Closed Block Business. For periods subsequent to 2001, earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding. Stock options are included in the number of diluted shares for the periods they are outstanding based on the treasury stock method. Net income for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for allocation of such expenses. For periods subsequent to the date of demutualization, the net income of each business is modified for cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses, which are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent actual administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, these differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments are used to adjust net income to determine the earnings available to the Common Stock and the Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes.
 
13.    Financial Advisors (Domestic and International):
 
Financial advisors and securities brokers in our securities operations.
 
14.    Financial Advisor Productivity (Domestic):
 
Financial Advisory segment total non-interest revenues, excluding revenues generated by the consumer bank and by the segment's retail fixed income and equity securities trading operations, divided by the average number of domestic Financial Advisors for the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
 
15.    General Account:
 
Invested assets and policyholder liabilities and reserves for which the Company bears the investment risk. Excludes assets recognized for statutory purposes that are specifically allocated to a separate account. General account assets also include assets of the parent company, Prudential Financial, Inc.
 
16.     Gibraltar Life Advisors:
 
Insurance representatives for Gibraltar Life.
 
17.    Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Administrative Operating Expense Ratios:
 
Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income.
 
18.    Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Benefits Ratios:
 
Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income.
 
:
19.    Insurance and Annuity Benefits
 
Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.
 
20.    International Life Planners:
 
Insurance agents in our insurance operations outside the United States, excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
 
21.    New annualized premiums:
 
Premiums from new sales that are expected to be collected over a one year period. Group insurance new annualized premiums exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage under our Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance contract, and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts.
 
22.    Non-recourse and Limited-recourse Debt:
 
Limited and non-recourse borrowing is where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets.
 
23.    Operating return on average equity:
 
Adjusted operating income after tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments.
 
24.    Policy PersistencyGroup Insurance:
 
Percentage of the premiums in force at the end of the prior year that are still in force at the end of the period (excluding Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Prudential Employee Benefit Plan).
 
25.    Policy PersistencyInternational Insurance:
 
13 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their second policy year. 25 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their third policy year.
 
26.    Prudential Agents:
 
Insurance agents in our insurance operations in the United States.
 
27.    Prudential Agent productivity:
 
Commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents under contract for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. Excludes commissions on new sales by Prudential Agents hired or departed during the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
 
28.    Ratio of corporate debt to total capitalization:
 
For purposes of this ratio, we measure "debt" as the sum of borrowings for general corporate purposes and 20% of the stated aggregate liquidation amount of the Equity Security Units, and we measure "total capitalization" as the sum of equity excluding unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, corporate debt and the stated aggregate liquidation amount of the Equity Security Units. The ratio is calculated by dividing debt by total capitalization.
 
29.    Redeemable Capital Securities:
 
Capital Trust Certificates of Prudential Financial Capital Trust I (element of Equity Security Units).
 
30.    Separate Accounts:
 
Assets of our insurance companies allocated under certain policies and contracts that are segregated from the general account and other separate accounts. The policyholder or contractholder predominantly bears the risk of investments held in a separate account.
 
31.    Wrap-Fee Products:
 
Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the customer are generally invested in other investment products such as mutual funds.
 
 
 
 
INVESTOR INFORMATION:
 


