FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20030211164730.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
 
 
PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL, INC. ANNOUNCES 2002 RESULTS
 
Newark, NJ  Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today reported after-tax adjusted operating income for its Financial Services Businesses of $1.182 billion for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to $826 million for 2001. Adjusted operating income was $2.12 per share of Common Stock in 2002, compared to $1.42 per Common share in 2001 on an equivalent share basis, which assumes that shares issued in the company's demutualization on December 18, 2001 and its initial public offering of Common Stock were outstanding for the entire 2001 period. Pre-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses was $1.780 billion in 2002, an increase of $431 million from $1.349 billion in 2001.
 
"Prudential Financial's progress in its first year as a public company toward its goals of improved results in its core businesses, a lower cost structure, and enhanced returns through effective capital management, is evident in our results. Earnings per Common share, based on after-tax adjusted operating income, was within our originally targeted range for the year, despite the effect of difficult equity market conditions in 2002," said Chairman and CEO Arthur F. Ryan. "Inclusive of the benefits we expect from our recently announced agreement to acquire American Skandia, we believe that Prudential will achieve Common Stock earnings per share in the range of $2.50 to $2.65 for the year 2003, based on after-tax adjusted operating income. The 2003 expectation assumes continuation of all of Prudential's existing businesses and appreciation in the S&P 500 index of 8% for the year," Ryan said. This expectation is subject to change if these assumptions are not realized and as discussed under "Forward Looking Statements" below.
 
For the fourth quarter of 2002, after-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses was $228 million (43 cents per Common share), compared to $136 million (23 cents per equivalent Common share) for the fourth quarter of 2001. Pre-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses was $324 million for the 2002 fourth quarter, an increase of $108 million from $216 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
After-tax adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains, net of losses and related adjustments, results from divested businesses, sales practices remedies and costs, and discontinued operations, as well as demutualization costs and expenses in 2001. Net income of the Financial Services Businesses, which includes the foregoing items, was $679 million ($1.25 per Common share) for the year ended
December 31, 2002, compared to $302 million (52 cents per equivalent Common share) for 2001. Net income of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to losses of $71 million for the fourth quarter of 2002 (10 cents per Common share) and $403 million for the year-ago quarter (69 cents per equivalent Common share). During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company announced its exit from the European retail securities brokerage business. The results of this business are included in discontinued operations for all periods presented.
 
In the following business-level discussion, adjusted operating income refers to pre-tax results.
 
 
Financial Services Businesses
 
Prudential Financial's Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of its Financial Services Businesses, which consist of its Insurance, Investment, and International Insurance and Investments divisions and its Corporate and Other operations.
 
The reported pre-tax adjusted operating income of $107 million for the fourth quarter of 2002, an increase of $36 million from $71 million in the year-ago quarter. Our Individual Life and Annuities segment reported adjusted operating income of $85 million for the current quarter, a $32 million increase from the year-ago quarter. The segment's individual life insurance business reported adjusted operating income of $70 million in the current quarter, compared to $31 million in the year-ago quarter which included implementation costs of our expense reduction program amounting to $78 million. A spike in mortality experience in the current quarter had an estimated negative impact of approximately $50 million on adjusted operating income in comparison to the year-ago quarter. The segment's individual annuity business reported adjusted operating income of $15 million in the current quarter, compared to $22 million in the year-ago quarter. Our Group Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $52 million in the current quarter, an increase of $31 million from the year-ago quarter, reflecting more favorable disability claims experience and a lower level of expenses, including consulting costs. Our Property and Casualty Insurance segment reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $30 million for the current quarter, compared to a $3 million loss in the year-ago quarter. The current quarter loss included a $33 million write-off of goodwill.
Insurance division
 
The reported pre-tax adjusted operating income of $36 million in the fourth quarter of 2002, an increase of $32 million from $4 million in the year-ago quarter. Our Investment Management segment reported adjusted operating income of $27 million for the current quarter, an increase of $8 million from the year-ago quarter. The increase came from a lower level of expenses, reflecting employee termination costs in the year-ago quarter, which more than offset lower fees in the current quarter due to market value declines in our equity assets under management. Our Financial Advisory segment reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $28 million for the current quarter, compared to a $39 million loss in the year-ago quarter. The segment's results for the year-ago quarter included $20 million that Prudential Securities earned as
Investment division
co-manager in the initial public offering of our Common stock, which is offset by a corresponding charge in our Corporate and Other results for that quarter. The decrease in the segment's loss resulted primarily from our cost reduction measures, which more than offset declines in transaction-based and other revenues. Adjusted operating income from our Retirement and Other Asset Management segments amounted to $37 million in the current quarter, compared to $24 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
The reported pre-tax adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter of 2002 of $174 million, an increase of $21 million from $153 million in the year-ago quarter. The International Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $180 million for the quarter, compared to $172 million for the year-ago quarter. The segment's Gibraltar Life operations reported adjusted operating income of $71 million for the current quarter, compared to $77 million for last year's fourth quarter, which included $6 million of gains from policy surrenders associated with the initial period of operations after its restructuring. Gibraltar Life's $71 million adjusted operating income for the current quarter reflects increased reserves of about $11 million resulting from stronger policy persistency than we expected at this stage of its operations, as well as a higher level of policy benefits than that of the year's first nine months. Adjusted operating income from our international insurance operations other than Gibraltar Life was $109 million, up $14 million from the year-ago quarter. The current quarter's results reflect a favorable impact of $12 million from a change in our estimate of capitalized costs associated with new sales and a negative impact of $8 million, versus the year-ago quarter, from currency fluctuations. Our International Investments segment reported losses, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $6 million in the current quarter and $19 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease in the segment's loss reflected a lower expense level in the current quarter. These results exclude our European retail securities brokerage activities, which we reported in discontinued operations for all periods.
International Insurance and Investments division
 
resulted in pre-tax adjusted operating income of $7 million in the fourth quarter of 2002, compared to a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $12 million in the year-ago quarter.
Corporate and Other operations
 
amounted to $556 billion at December 31, 2002, compared to $590 billion at December 31, 2001. Assets under management were $373 billion at December 31, 2002, a decrease of $15 billion from a year earlier. The decrease reflects the market value declines in our equity assets under management.
Assets under management and administration
 
The applied to adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses was 33.6% for the full year. The exclusion of our European retail securities brokerage activities, which are now part of discontinued operations, resulted in a reduction of the rate from the 34.5% that was applied during the first nine months of the
effective tax rate
year. This reduction contributed $13 million to after-tax adjusted operating income for the current quarter.
 
of the Financial Services Businesses for the fourth quarter of 2002 amounted to a loss of $71 million, compared to a loss of $403 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter net income included $278 million of realized investment losses, net of related adjustments, losses of $68 million from divested businesses and a loss of $58 million (net of related taxes) from discontinued operations. The realized losses in the current quarter included losses of $385 million from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities, which were partially offset by realized gains from fixed maturities, including private bond prepayments. The loss from divested businesses includes a charge of $79 million in connection with a stop-loss reinsurance agreement the company entered into in 2000 when it sold a subsidiary engaged in the commercial property and casualty insurance business. The loss from discontinued operations is primarily attributable to our exit from the European retail securities brokerage business. The net loss of the Financial Services Businesses for the year-ago quarter included realized investment losses, net of related adjustments, of $132 million, reflecting losses of $266 million from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities, as well as demutualization costs and expenses of $389 million and losses from divested businesses totaling $25 million.
Net income
 
 
Closed Block Business
 
Prudential's Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of its Closed Block Business.
 
The Closed Block Business, which represents results of our Traditional Participating Products segment prior to the demutualization, includes our in-force participating life insurance and annuity policies, and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies.
 
The Closed Block Business reported losses from operations before income taxes of $186 million for the fourth quarter of 2002 and $236 million for the year-ago quarter. Closed Block Business results included net realized investment losses of $205 million in the current quarter and $270 million in the year-ago quarter.
 
The Closed Block Business reported a fourth quarter 2002 net loss of $122 million, compared to a net loss of $103 million for the year-ago quarter.
 
For the year ended December 31, 2002, the Closed Block Business reported a $757 million loss from operations before income taxes, compared to a $619 million loss for 2001. The Closed Block Business reported net losses of $485 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 and $456 million for 2001.
Consolidated Results
 
There is no legal separation of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock are both common stockholders of Prudential Financial, Inc.
 
On a consolidated basis, which includes the results of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, Prudential Financial, Inc. reported net losses of $193 million for the fourth quarter of 2002 and $506 million for the year-ago quarter, and reported net income of $194 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, and a net loss of $154 million for 2001.
 
 
Share Repurchase Program
 
During the fourth quarter of 2002, the company repurchased 8.2 million shares of its Common Stock, at a total cost of approximately $250 million. From the commencement of share repurchases in May, 2002, through December 31, 2002, the company repurchased 26.0 million shares of its Common Stock at a total cost of approximately $800 million. This included 1.7 million shares repurchased and reissued directly to a company deferred compensation plan.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain of the statements included in this release, including (but not limited to) those in the third paragraph hereof, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U. S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "assumes," "estimates," "projects," or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including without limitation: general economic, market and political conditions, including the performance of financial markets, interest rate fluctuations and the continuing impact of the events of September 11, 2001; volatility in the securities markets; reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims; our exposure to contingent liabilities; catastrophe losses; investment losses and defaults; changes in our claims-paying or credit ratings; competition in our product lines and for personnel; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; risks to our international operations; the impact of changing regulation or adverse litigation results; and changes in tax law. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and
is under no obligation to, update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document. The information referred to above, as well as the risks of our businesses described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, should be considered by readers when reviewing forward-looking statements contained in this release.
 
 
Earnings Conference Call
 
Members of Prudential's senior management will host a conference call on Wednesday, February 12, 2003, at 11 a.m. ET, to discuss with the investment community the company's fourth quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the company's Investor Relations Web site at: . Please log on fifteen minutes early in the event necessary software needs to be downloaded. The call will remain on the Investor Relations Web site for replay through February 19. Institutional investors, analysts, and other members of the professional financial community are invited to listen to the call and participate in Q&A by dialing (877) 260-8896 (domestic callers) or (612) 338-1917 (international callers). All others are encouraged to dial into the conference call in listen-only mode, using the same numbers. To listen to a replay of the conference call starting at 4:15 p.m. on February 12, dial (800) 475-6701 (domestic callers) or (320) 365-3844 (international callers). The access code for the replay is 669819.
http://www.investor.prudential.com
 
Prudential Financial companies serve individual and institutional customers worldwide and include The Prudential Insurance Company of America, one of the largest life insurance companies in the U.S. These companies offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, property and casualty insurance, mutual funds, annuities, pension and retirement related services and administration, asset management, securities brokerage, banking and trust services, real estate brokerage franchises and relocation services. For more information, visit .
www.prudential.com
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
See footnotes on page 4.
Financial Services Businesses Division Highlights
(in millions, except as otherwise noted)
 
 
See footnotes on page 4.
Financial Services Businesses Division Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted)
 
 
See footnotes on page 4.
 
 
 
Net income for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for allocation of such expenses. For periods subsequent to the date of demutualization, cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments modify earnings available to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. Earnings per share of Common Stock based on adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses reflects these adjustments as well.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference is made to Prudential Financial, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for general information, and consolidated financial information, regarding Prudential Financial, Inc., including its Closed Block Business.
 
February 11, 2003
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Quarterly Financial Supplement for the period ended December 31, 2002 reflects the reorganization of the Company's international securities operations that was announced in November 2002. This reorganization resulted in the following:
 
The Company's European retail transaction-oriented stockbrokerage and related activities, formerly reported in the International Securities and Investments segment, were discontinued, and the results of these operations have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented herein.
 
The Latin American branches formerly included in the International Securities and Investments segment are now managed together with the U.S. branches of the Company's securities operations, and the results of operations associated with these branches are included in adjusted operating income of the Financial Advisory segment for all periods presented herein.
 
The Company's international equity group operations, formerly included in the International Securities and Investments segment, are now managed together with the Company's U.S. equity research and institutional sales and trading operations, and the results of these operations are included in adjusted operating income of the Financial Advisory segment for all periods presented herein.
 
The former International Securities and Investments segment has been renamed International Investments and reflects the changes mentioned above as well as the integration of the European and Asian Private Client business with the Company's international asset management business. The futures operations were unchanged and remain a component of the International Investments segment.
 
In addition, the Company discontinued its international venture comprised of retail broker-dealer operations in Tokyo, formerly reported within Corporate and Other results, and the results of this venture have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented herein. Revenues and expenses of Corporate and Other operations as reported herein also reflect certain reclassifications to conform to current reporting practices, which have no impact on adjusted operating income or net income for any period.
 
This Quarterly Financial Supplement includes restated historical results and measures for each of the quarters of 2002 and 2001 and the year ended December 31, 2000, conforming to current reporting practices, for the Financial Advisory and International Investments segments as well as Corporate and Other operations.
 
If you have any questions or need assistance with regard to this Quarterly Financial Supplement, please contact the Investor Relations unit.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2002
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality (1):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Attributed Equity:
 
Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business.
 
2. Adjusted operating income before income taxes:
 
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure that excludes realized investment gains, net of losses and related adjustments; results of divested businesses and discontinued operations; sales practices remedies and costs; and demutualization costs and expenses. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, and for the divisions of the Financial Services Businesses, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and exclude these items as well. Adjusted operating income should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
 
3. After-tax adjusted operating income:
 
Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes.
 
4. Assets Under Management:
 
Fair market value or account value of assets which Prudential manages directly in proprietary products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, in separate accounts, wrap-fee products and the general account, and assets invested in investment options included in the Company's products that are managed by third party sub-managers (i.e., the non-proprietary investment options in the Company's products).
 
5. Book value per share of Common Stock:
 
Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis.
 
6. BorrowingsGeneral Corporate Purposes:
 
Amounts used for corporate purposes including uses for cash flow timing mismatches, and investments in equity and debt securities of subsidiaries including amounts needed for regulatory capital purposes.
 
7. BorrowingsInvestment Related:
 
Debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including real estate, real estate related assets held in consolidated joint ventures, and institutional spread lending portfolios.
 
8. BorrowingsSecurities Business Related:
 
Debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker-dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations.
 
9. BorrowingsSpecified Other Businesses:
 
Borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, real estate franchises, and relocation services.
 
10. Client Assets:
 
Fair market value of assets in client accounts of Prudential Securities and Prudential Bank, and trust client accounts, that are not included in Assets Under Management. Prudential does not receive a management or administrative fee on these assets, but may receive a fee for executing trades, custody or recordkeeping services.
 
 
 
 
11. Earned Premiums:
 
The portion of a premium, net of any amount ceded, that represents coverage already provided or that belongs to the insurer based on the part of the policy period that has passed.
 
12. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock:
 
Prudential Financial, Inc.'s initial public offering and the demutualization of The Prudential Insurance Company of America became effective on December 18, 2001. For the 2001 periods, earnings per share data are presented on a pro forma basis that assumes that shares issued in the initial public offering, including those issued as a result of the subsequent exercise by underwriters of options to acquire additional shares, and shares distributed as demutualization consideration to policyholders, were outstanding for all such periods. Earnings used in per-share calculations for the 2001 periods have not been adjusted to reflect the demutualization or related transactions, including the establishment of the Closed Block Business. For periods subsequent to 2001, earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding. Stock options are included in the number of diluted shares for the period they are outstanding based on the treasury stock method. Net income for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for the allocation of such expenses. For periods subsequent to the date of demutualization, cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments modify earnings available to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. Earnings per share of Common Stock based on adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses reflects these adjustments as well.
 
13. Financial Advisors:
 
Financial advisors and securities brokers in our Financial Advisory and International Investments segments.
 
14. Financial Advisor Productivity:
 
Financial Advisory segment total non-interest revenues, excluding revenues generated by the consumer bank and by the segment's retail fixed income and equity sales and trading operations, divided by the average number of retail Financial Advisors for the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
 
15. General Account:
 
Invested assets and policyholder liabilities and reserves for which the Company bears the investment risk. Excludes assets recognized for statutory purposes that are specifically allocated to a separate account. General account assets also include assets of the parent company, Prudential Financial, Inc.
 
16. Gibraltar Life Advisors:
 
Insurance representatives for Gibraltar Life.
 
17. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Administrative Operating Expense Ratios:
 
Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income.
 
18. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Benefits Ratios:
 
Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income.
 
19. Insurance and Annuity Benefits:
 
Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.
 
20. International Life Planners:
 
Insurance agents in our insurance operations outside the United States, excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors.
 
 
 
 
 
21. New annualized premiums:
 
Premiums from new sales that are expected to be collected over a one year period. Group insurance new annualized premiums exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage under our Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance contract, and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts.
 
22. Non-recourse and Limited-recourse Debt:
 
Limited and non-recourse borrowing is where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets.
 
23. Operating return on average equity:
 
Adjusted operating income after tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding unrealized gains and losses on investments.
 
24. Policy PersistencyGroup Insurance:
 
Percentage of the premiums in force at the end of the prior year that are still in force at the end of the period (excluding Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Prudential Employee Benefit Plan).
 
25. Policy PersistencyInternational Insurance:
 
13 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their second policy year. 25 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their third policy year.
 
26. Prudential Agents:
 
Insurance agents in our insurance operations in the United States.
 
27. Prudential Agent productivity:
 
Commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents under contract for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. Excludes commissions on new sales by Prudential Agents hired or departed during the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
 
28. Ratio of corporate debt to total capitalization:
 
For purposes of this ratio, we measure "debt" as the sum of borrowings for general corporate purposes and 20% of the stated aggregate liquidation amount of the Equity Security Units, and we measure "total capitalization" as the sum of equity excluding unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities, corporate debt and the stated aggregate liquidation amount of the Equity Security Units. The ratio is calculated by dividing debt by total capitalization.
 
29. Redeemable Capital Securities:
 
Capital Trust Certificates of Prudential Financial Capital Trust I (element of Equity Security Units).
 
30. Separate Accounts:
 
Assets of our insurance companies allocated under certain policies and contracts that are segregated from the general account and other separate accounts. The policyholder or contractholder predominantly bears the risk of investments held in a separate account.
 
31. Wrap-Fee Products:
 
Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the customer are generally invested in other investment products such as mutual funds.
 
 
 
 
 
INSURANCE CLAIMS PAYING RATINGS
as of February 11, 2003
 
 


