FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20031223170620.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
The Registrant has a number of subsidiaries in the domestic asset management and investment advisory businesses. These units are receiving numerous questions about the regulatory inquiries and investigations affecting the mutual fund and annuity businesses. We have prepared, and attach a copy of, written responses for use by these subsidiaries in answering questions about these inquiries and Registrant's internal review as related to these units' businesses.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
A number of formal requests for information have been made by regulators and government authorities about the trading practices in the mutual fund and annuities industry that affect many major U.S. companies in those businesses. Prudential is no exception.
 
To date, the requests for information concerning mutual funds have followed two tracks:
 
 
 
Information relating to administrative complaints filed by the Massachusetts Securities Division against Prudential Securities (a separate legal entity) and several of its former brokers and branch managers can be found in an 8-K filed by Prudential Financial on December 18, 2003.
 
We have been cooperating with all inquiries and, at the same time, have been conducting our own internal review, which we are working to complete as quickly as possible.
 
 
We are still reviewing Prudential Financial's domestic mutual fund complex, and we are continuing to cooperate with regulatory inquiries. We can tell you, however, that Prudential Investments has actively discouraged market timing, and for years, our domestic mutual fund prospectuses have identified and addressed this issue. Its established operating policies and procedures are designed to detect and deter frequent trading activity, and we believe the policies and procedures have been largely effective.
 
As part of our internal review, we have reviewed the trading records available to us of Prudential Financial's mutual fund investment professionals, and to date we have found no evidence of our portfolio
managers market timing in our funds. Our review has uncovered an investment analyst who made a small number of short-term trades a few years ago. When the activity was detected at that time, the analyst was notified and the activity ceased.
 
 
Like many companies, we are cooperating with regulatory inquiries and have been conducting our own internal review of our annuity business. While our review is incomplete, the information reviewed to date leads us to believe the policies and procedures we have in place to detect and prevent disruptive market timing in Prudential's domestic annuity products have been largely effective.
 
 
We acquired American Skandia on May 1. Since then we have been continuing our comprehensive review of American Skandia's products, services, controls and procedures. We can tell you that American Skandia Funds do have a policy addressing market timing and have suspended or terminated trading privileges pursuant to this policy. Since this review is not yet complete, it would be premature to comment further
.
 


