FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20040831161557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
 
 
Mr. Sayre, 51, has been with the Company or its affiliates since March 1985. Over the years he has held a number of legal and finance positions with the Company or its affiliates, with a principal focus on tax matters. He became a Corporate Vice President and Associate Comptroller of The Prudential Insurance Company of America in June 1994. In March 2000, he became Chief Tax Officer of The Prudential Insurance Company of America. He has been a Vice President and Chief Tax Officer of the Company since December 2001. Mr. Sayre obtained his designation as a certified public accountant and is a lawyer. He has an undergraduate degree in economics and a graduate degree in accounting from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and his law degree from the University of Pennsylvania. In addition to serving as Controller, Mr. Sayre will continue to head the Company's Tax Department.
 
Mr. Sullivan, 49, has been a Vice President of The Prudential Insurance Company of America since November 1998 and Deputy Corporate Controller of the Company since December 2001. His principal responsibilities have focused on accounting matters, external financial reporting and management reporting, planning and forecasting. From January 1998 to November 1998, he was Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of ContiFinancial Corporation. From June 1989 to January 1998 he held various positions at Salomon Inc. and was Deputy Corporate Controller of that company between September 1996 and January 1998. Mr. Sullivan is a certified public accountant. He has an undergraduate degree in accounting from New York University and a Masters in Business Administration from Columbia University.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 31, 2004
 


