FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20050607135910.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
In light of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey company (the "Company"), being held today and in anticipation of possible questions or discussion at the Annual Meeting or thereafter, the Company is reporting the following for purposes of Regulation FD:
 
 
The timing and amount of any share repurchases under the authorization will be determined by management based on market conditions and other considerations, and such repurchases may be effected in the open market, through derivative, accelerated repurchase and other negotiated transactions and through plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
The news release relating to this matter is being filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference.
 
 
Subsequent to commencing its voluntary review, the Company received a subpoena from the Connecticut Attorney General requesting information regarding the Company's participation in certain types of reinsurance transactions. The Company believes that a number of other insurance industry participants have also received this request. It is possible that the Company or its subsidiaries may receive additional requests relating to reinsurance arrangements. The Company intends to cooperate fully with all such requests.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) .
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 7, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU) announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized an increase of $600 million to its existing stock repurchase program, bringing the total authorized share repurchases for 2005 to $2.1 billion.
NEWARK, N.J. 
 
"Through our actions over the past few years, we've established a balanced mix of businesses and strengthened our long term growth prospects and financial position," said Arthur F. Ryan, Chairman and CEO. "As a result, we have a strong capital position and the financial flexibility that enables us to increase our share repurchase program."
 
The Board had previously authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of its outstanding common stock in 2005. From January 1, 2005 through June 7, 2005, the Company has repurchased approximately $678 million of its common stock under this program.
 
Prudential Financial companies, with approximately $496 billion in total assets under management as of March 31, 2005, serve individual and institutional customers worldwide and include The Prudential Insurance Company of America, one of the largest life insurance companies in the United States. These companies offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, mutual funds, annuities, pension and retirement related services and administration, asset management, securities brokerage, banking and trust services, real estate brokerage franchises and relocation services. For more information, visit .
www.prudential.com
 


