FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20051109165246.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On November 9, 2004, Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), issued a news release announcing the offering of $2.0 billion aggregate initial principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2035 pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The Company has granted the initial purchasers of the convertible notes an overallotment option to purchase up to an additional $300 million aggregate initial principal amount of the convertible notes.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) .
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 9, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
 
 
 
 Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today announced the offering of $2.0 billion aggregate initial principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2035 pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Prudential Financial has granted the initial purchasers of the convertible notes an overallotment option to purchase up to an additional $300 million aggregate initial principal amount of the convertible notes.
NEWARK, N.J.
 
In connection with the offering, Prudential Financial anticipates purchasing under its existing share repurchase authorization up to $210 million of its Common Stock with a portion of the offering proceeds. Prudential Financial anticipates that substantially all of those repurchases will be from the purchasers of the convertible notes.
 
This announcement is neither an offer to sell nor the solicitation of an offer to buy the convertible notes or the shares issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes and shall not constitute an offer or solicitation in any jurisdiction in which such offer or solicitation is unlawful.
 
Neither the convertible notes nor the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible notes have been registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
 
Certain of the statements included in this release may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "includes," "plans," "assumes," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "should," "will," "shall," or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking
 
Page 2
 
statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) general economic, market and political conditions, including the performance of financial markets and interest rate fluctuations; (2) domestic or international military or terrorist activities or conflicts; (3) volatility in the securities markets; (4) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; (5) regulatory or legislative changes, including changes in tax law; (6) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; (7) differences between actual experience regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, surrender experience, interest rates, or market returns and the assumptions we use in pricing our products, establishing liabilities and reserves or for other purposes; (8) reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims; (9) changes in our assumptions related to deferred policy acquisitions costs; (10) events resulting in catastrophic loss of life; (11) investment losses and defaults; (12) changes in our claims-paying or credit ratings; (13) competition in our product lines and for personnel; (14) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations; (15) Prudential Financial's primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends; (16) risks due to the lack of legal separation between our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business; (17) adverse determinations in litigation or regulatory matters and our exposure to contingent liabilities; and (18) the effects of acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including possible difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions. Prudential Financial does not intend, and is under no obligation, to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document.
 
Page 3
 
Prudential Financial companies, with approximately $522 billion in total assets under management as of September 30, 2005, serve individual and institutional customers worldwide and include The Prudential Company of America, one of the largest life insurance companies in the United States. These companies offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, mutual funds, annuities, pension and retirement related services and administration, asset management, securities brokerage, banking and trust services, real estate brokerage franchises and relocation services. For more information, visit www.prudential.com.
 
 
 


