FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20060828170847.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On August 28, 2006, Prudential Equity Group, LLC ("PEG"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial, Inc. (the "Company"), reached a global resolution of the previously disclosed regulatory and criminal investigations into deceptive market timing related activities involving PEG's former Prudential Securities operations. This resolution takes the form of separate settlements between PEG and each of the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts ("USAO"), the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Securities Division ("MSD"), the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the National Association of Securities Dealers ("NASD"), the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), the New Jersey Bureau of Securities ("NJBS") and the New York Attorney General's Office ("NYAG").
The investigations of the above named authorities have focused on former Prudential Securities brokers in Boston and certain other branch offices in the U.S., their supervisors, and other members of the Prudential Securities control structure with responsibilities that related to the market timing activities, including certain former members of Prudential Securities senior management. The settlements relate to conduct that generally occurred between 1999 and September 2003. The Prudential Securities operations were contributed to a joint venture with Wachovia Corporation in July 2003, but PEG retained liability for the market timing related activities.
These settlements resolve the investigations by the above named authorities into these matters as to all Prudential entities without further regulatory proceedings or filing of charges so long as the settlement terms are followed and provided, in the case of the settlement agreement reached with the USAO, that the USAO has reserved the right to prosecute PEG if there is a material breach by PEG of that agreement during its five year term and in certain other specified events. Under the terms of the settlements, PEG is paying $270 million into a Fair Fund administered by the SEC to compensate those harmed by the market timing activities. In addition, $330 million will be paid in fines and penalties. In the settlements, PEG has agreed to retain, at PEG's ongoing cost and expense, the services of an Independent Distribution Consultant acceptable to certain of the authorities to develop a proposed distribution plan for the distribution of Fair Fund amounts according to a methodology developed in consultation with and acceptable to certain of the authorities. In addition, as part of these settlements PEG has agreed, among other things, to continue to cooperate with the above named authorities in any litigation, ongoing investigations or other proceedings relating to or arising from their investigations into these matters.
No addition to the Company's existing reserves for estimated settlement costs is required on account of the payment into the Fair Fund, fines and penalties required to be paid under the terms of these settlements.
In connection with the settlements, the Company has agreed with the USAO, among other things, to cooperate with the USAO and to maintain and periodically report on the effectiveness of its compliance procedures.
The settlement documents include findings and admissions that may adversely affect existing litigation or cause additional litigation and result in adverse publicity and other potentially adverse impacts to the Company's businesses.
The foregoing summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the settlement documents with the USAO, MSD, SEC, NASD, NYSE, NJBS and NYAG, copies of which are attached as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5, 10.6 and 10.7, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
A copy of the Company's public statement, dated August 28, 2006, confirming the settlements described in Item 1.01 above is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 28, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP, LLC ("PEG"), formerly known as Prudential Securities, Incorporated ("PSI"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Prudential Financial, Inc. ("Prudential"), by its undersigned attorneys, pursuant to authority granted by the Board of Directors of PEG and Prudential and the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts (the "USAO"), enter into this Agreement (the "Agreement").
WHEREAS, since November 2003, the USAO has been conducting a criminal investigation into allegations that PEG employees were engaged in deceptive trading in mutual fund shares in violation of federal criminal law, including the following: (a) Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78j(b) and 78ff(a), Title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, Section 240.10b-5; (b) Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78o(c)(1)(A) and 78ff(a), Title 17 Code of Federal Regulations, Section 240.15c(1)-2; (c) Title 18, United States Code, Section 1341; (d) Title 18, United States Code, Section 1343; and (e) Title 18, United States Code, Section 2;
WHEREAS, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the National Association of Securities Dealers ("NASD"), the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the "Secretary"), the State of New York Attorney General's Office ("NYAG"), and the New Jersey Bureau of Securities ("NJBS") (collectively the "Securities Regulators") have also conducted investigations of PEG into matters related to the deceptive trading in mutual funds, and those investigations of PEG are now concluded in accordance with the terms of this Agreement;
WHEREAS, the USAO investigation of PEG has established, without limitation, the following:
 
 
 
WHEREAS, the USAO has filed criminal charges against a number of former employees of PSI, and PEG acknowledges and accepts responsibility for the conduct of those former employees.
WHEREAS the USAO has informed Prudential and PEG that the USAO has determined that there is a sufficient basis to seek an indictment of PEG for, without limitation, violations of Title 15, United States Code, Sections 78j(b) and 78ff(a), and Title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, Section 240.10b-5;
WHEREAS, the USAO has determined that an indictment of PEG may cause undue harm to innocent individuals, including current employees of PEG and employees and shareholders of affiliated entities who had no involvement in the criminal conduct under investigation; and
WHEREAS, PEG's parent company, Prudential, by and through its Board of Directors, has undertaken certain remedial actions to ensure better control and compliance over PEG and other Prudential affiliated entities and has agreed to continue those efforts by separate letter agreement with the USAO dated August 28, 2006;
NOW, THEREFORE, the USAO and PEG agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$270,000,000 paid to the Fair Fund administered by the SEC pursuant to an offer of settlement reached between the Securities Regulators and PEG; and
$5,000,000 paid to the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as a monetary penalty.
The balance, $325,000,000, shall be paid as a monetary penalty allocated as follows: $300,000,000 to the United States Treasury and $25,000,000 to the United States Postal Inspection Service Consumer Fraud Fund.
The payments set forth above are material terms of this Agreement. Failure to make payment upon execution of this Agreement or within 48 hours of execution of this Agreement renders all remaining terms of this Agreement null and void.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Boston Brokers
One group of former PSI brokers based in its Boston, Massachusetts branch office (the "Boston Brokers") repeatedly used deceptive practices to circumvent mutual fund restrictions throughout the relevant period of time. The Boston Brokers consisted of a group of three PSI brokers and registered assistants. The group had seven clients for whom it placed market timing trades.
Many of the mutual funds in which the Boston Brokers traded screened for market timing trades by FA Number and customer account numbers. Many fund companies sent notices to PSI that complained that the Boston Brokers' trades had violated trading limitations. Some mutual funds announced steps they had taken to preclude the Boston Brokers from further trading while others asked that PSI take steps to block further trades by the group in the fund.
During the relevant period, the Boston Brokers used at least fourteen FA numbers and 183 customer accounts (for what were, in reality, only seven clients) to circumvent these blocks and avoid new blocks. The Boston Brokers' use of these devices in connection with market timing allowed group members to continue to place trades in funds that had taken steps to preclude them from further trading. Their scheme created the impression that transactions originated from many
 
brokers and represented many different customers. In fact, what appeared to the mutual funds to be thousands of separate transactions submitted by many brokers for many unrelated customers was actually a systematic pattern of market timing by group members on behalf of their seven Hedge Fund clients.
By 2002 and 2003, the head of the Boston Brokers became the top producing broker for the Boston Branch, and was one of the highest producing brokers throughout PSI.
The Garden City Broker
Another former PSI broker, based in its Liberty Plaza and Garden City, New York branch offices (the "Garden City Broker"), also engaged in deceptive practices throughout the relevant period. The Garden City Broker headed a team of brokers and registered assistants, although he very rarely reported to work at any PSI location. He had five clients for whom he placed market timing trades, each of whom acted on behalf of one or more Hedge Funds.
Like the Boston Brokers, the Garden City Broker traded in mutual funds that screened for market timing by FA Number and client account number. During the relevant period, several mutual funds complained to PSI about the Garden City Broker's trading activity. Many mutual funds specifically identified to PSI the deceptive trading strategies the Garden City Broker used to evade blocks the fund companies had imposed.
To evade these blocks, the Garden City Broker maintained as many as 49 different FA Numbers and as many as 400 accounts (for what were, in reality, only five clients). His use of these devices to market time created the impression that the trades originated from many brokers and many customers. By shifting trades from one FA Number to another, or from one customer account to another, the Garden City Broker concealed his identity and was able to place trades in mutual funds that previously had blocked his trading under his other FA numbers and accounts.
From 2001 through 2003, the Garden City Broker was the top producing broker at PSI.
 
The Special Accounts Brokers
Another group of former PSI brokers based in a New York office known within the firm as "Special Accounts" (the "Special Accounts Brokers") also engaged in deceptive practices throughout the relevant period. The Special Accounts Brokers consisted of a group of two PSI brokers and several registered assistants. The group had three clients for which it placed market timing trades.
To avoid detection by mutual funds, the Special Accounts Brokers used at least 20 FA numbers and hundreds of client accounts (for what were, in reality, only three clients). The Special Accounts Brokers also used "under-the-radar" trading to disguise their customers' trading in funds that previously had taken steps to stop them. The Brokers' use of these devices in connection with market timing deceived mutual funds into accepting trades they otherwise would have rejected. Like the Boston Brokers and the Garden City Broker, the Brokers' Conduct gave the impression that transactions originated from many brokers and represented many different clients.
From 2001 through 2003, the heads of the Special Accounts Brokers group achieved membership in PSI's Chairman's Club, a select group consisting of only the largest producing brokers within the firm.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The United States Attorney Charges:
From on or about January 1, 1999 through on or about June 30, 2003, in the District of Massachusetts and elsewhere,
defendant herein, did knowingly and willfully, by the use of means and instrumentalities of interstate commerce and of the mails, directly and indirectly aided and abetted others in (a) employing a device, scheme and artifice to defraud, (b) making untrue statements of a material fact and omitting to state a material fact necessary in order to make statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and (c) engaging in acts, practices and courses of business which operated as a fraud and deceit upon persons, in connection with the purchase and sale of securities, all in violation of 15 U.S.C.  78j(b) & 78ff(a) and 17 C.F.R.  240.10b-5 and 18 U.S.C.  2.
 
Robert S. Bennett, Esq.
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
1440 New York Avenue, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20005-2111
Neal E. Sullivan, Esq.
Bingham McCutchen, LLP
2020 K Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20006
 
Dear Mr. Bennett and Mr. Sullivan:
This letter sets forth the agreement ("Compliance Agreement") between the United States Attorneys' Office for the District of Massachusetts (the "USAO") and Prudential Financial, Inc. ("Prudential").
The USAO is conducting a criminal investigation into fraudulent conduct at Prudential Securities, Incorporated ("PSI"), now known as Prudential Equity Group, LLC ("PEG") (unless otherwise stated, PEG and PSI are collectively referred to herein as "PEG"). In connection with that investigation, PEG and the USAO have entered into an Agreement ("Agreement") dated August 28, 2006. The USAO agrees that if PEG complies with its obligations under the Agreement, the USAO will not prosecute PEG or any of its affiliated companies, or their joint venture partners, including Wachovia Securities LLC, for any mutual fund market timing conduct investigated by the USAO or relating to matters described in the Statement of Facts or the Statements of Facts in the agreements related to mutual fund market timing practices between PEG or any of their affiliated companies, or their joint venture partners, including Wachovia Securities LLC and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, the New York Stock Exchange, the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the State of New York Attorney General's Office, and the New Jersey Bureau of Securities.
Robert S. Bennett, Esq.
Neal E. Sullivan, Esq.
August 28, 2006
Page 2
As further set forth in the Agreement, the USAO has entered into the Agreement in part because Prudential has undertaken certain remedial actions to ensure better compliance controls over PEG and other Prudential affiliated entities. By this letter, Prudential agrees to continue its remedial efforts for a period of 60 months from the date of the Agreement. More specifically, Prudential agrees to the following:
 
 
 
 
a) that the Compliance Plan is appropriately designed to accomplish its goals; and
b) that Prudential is, in fact, implementing the Compliance Plan.
Robert S. Bennett, Esq.
Neal E. Sullivan, Esq.
August 28, 2006
Page 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
This Consent Order ("Order") is entered into by the Massachusetts Securities Division ("Division") and Respondent Prudential Equity Group, LLC, formerly known as Prudential Securities Incorporated ("Respondent") with respect to the administrative complaint ("Complaint") filed against Respondent in which the Enforcement Section of the Division alleges that the Respondent has violated the Massachusetts Uniform Securities Act, M.G.L. c. 110A ("Act") and the corresponding regulations promulgated thereunder ("Regulations"). This Order is the final settlement of those allegations set forth in the Complaint.
On August 28, 2006 Respondent submitted an Offer of Settlement (the "Offer") for the purpose of disposing of only those allegations set forth in the Complaint. Solely for the purpose of settlement, the Respondent admits to the Division's Statements of Fact set out in the Offer and consents to the entry of this Order. Therefore, the Division sets forth the following facts and legal conclusions:
1. The Massachusetts Securities Division is a division of the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth with jurisdiction over matters relating to securities, as provided for by the Act.
2. The Act authorizes the Division to regulate: (a) the offers and/or sales of securities; (b) those individuals offering and/or selling securities; and (c) those individuals transacting business as registered agent-dealers and investment advisers within the Commonwealth.
3. The Division brings this action pursuant to the enforcement authority conferred upon it by Section 407A of the Act and M.G.L. c. 30A, wherein the Division has the authority to conduct an adjudicatory proceeding to enforce the provisions of the Act and all corresponding Regulations promulgated thereunder.
4. Prior to July 1, 2003, Prudential Securities Incorporated ("PSI") was a wholly-owned broker-dealer subsidiary of Prudential Financial, Incorporated ("Prudential Financial"). Prudential Financial is a publicly-owned holding company traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). On July 1, 2003, PSI transferred the assets relating to its U.S. retail securities brokerage operations to a newly formed holding company, now named Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC ("WSFH"). Prudential Financial presently owns 38% of WSFH and Wachovia Corporation owns 62% of WSFH. Since July 1, 2003, PSI's former U.S. retail securities brokerage business has operated as part of Wachovia Securities, LLC. Following the asset transfer, PSI converted from a stock corporation into a limited liability company and was renamed Prudential Equity Group, LLC ("PEG"). PEG is a broker-dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities
 
Exchange Act of 1934 and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers ("NASD") and the NYSE. Prudential Financial continues to indirectly own 100% of the equity interest in PEG. PEG is a registered broker-dealer in Massachusetts, Central Registration Depository Number 7471, with a main business address of One New York Plaza, 15
th
Floor, New York, New York 10292-2015.
5. In July of 2003, the Division received information from a former PSI registered agent alleging that certain registered agents of the PSI Boston branch office were engaged in market timing of mutual fund shares, PSI management knew of this activity, and PSI failed to take the necessary action to stop it.
6. These PSI registered agents included Martin Druffner, Skifter Ajro and Justin Ficken (the "Druffner Group").
7. The former registered agent alleged that the Druffner Group made a multi-million dollar business out of trading in and out of mutual funds to make quick profits at the expense of long-term shareholders and on behalf of sophisticated clients, primarily large hedge funds.
8. The former registered agent further indicated that trades and exchanges were routinely placed by these PSI registered agents on a daily basis between 3:30 and 4:00 p.m.
9. The trading volume was so excessive that certain PSI operations employees were instructed to only work on putting these trades through.
10. The former registered agent also alleged that the market timers in the PSI Boston office were given preferential treatment including, re-assigned accounts, assistants and bonuses.
 
11. Furthermore, the former registered agent alleged that PSI management was not concerned with eliminating market timing at the Boston branch because of the revenue it generated.
12. Based on this initial information and evidence obtained by the Division regarding PSI's Boston branch, on September 3, 2003 the Division forwarded PSI a subpoena duces tecum for records and authorized a formal investigation into PSI to determine whether certain business practices had violated provisions of the Act.
13. Beginning in at least September 1999 and continuing through at least June 2003 ("Relevant Time Period"), the Division uncovered that certain PSI Boston registered agents used deceptive trading practices to conceal their identities, and those of their customers, to evade mutual funds' prospectus limitations on market timing.
A.
PSI's Knowledge of the Disruptive Impact of Market Timing
14. Prior to 1998, PSI did not have a formal market timing policy.
15. PSI understood that market timing and excessive short-term trading could make it difficult for fund managers to implement investment strategies.
16. In 1999, PSI registered agents were prohibited from market timing activity within the PruChoice product that PSI offered.
17. The market timing prohibition applied to all wrap fee programs and defined market timing to include more than one trade per quarter or more than four trades per year.
18. All large purchases and redemptions within the PruChoice product were carefully scrutinized by PSI, and the Druffner Group's market timing accounts within the wrap products were terminated.
 
19. The policy did not apply to non-proprietary mutual funds unless they were purchased and sold in a wrap fee program.
B.
PSI's Obligations to Mutual Fund Companies
20. PSI settled its trades through the National Securities Clearing Corporation's Fund/SERV system ("Fund/SERV").
21. The degree of information that a mutual fund company received from PSI varied depending on the "networking level" chosen by PSI.
22. The information provided via Fund/SERV generally included, among other things, a financial adviser number identifying the registered agent(s) ("FA number"), the registered agent(s) name, the client's account number, and the client's name.
23. During the Relevant Time Period, certain mutual fund companies regularly sought PSI's assistance to stop registered agents from market timing using, in part, the information received via Fund/SERV to identify the registered agent and/or client.
24. The mutual fund companies would submit written requests to PSI directing that a registered agent be stopped by either identifying the registered agent(s) by name or FA number, or by identifying the client by name or account number.
C.
PSI's Failure to Supervise the Boston Branch
25. Mutual fund companies identified registered agents within PSI, and specifically the Boston branch, as known market timers.
26. Mutual fund companies sent PSI numerous letters and e-mails advising that they would block certain registered agents from trading shares of mutual funds due to market timing activity or requesting PSI's assistance in blocking such activity.
27. Despite these warning and/or termination letters, PSI registered agents, specifically members of the Druffner Group, engaged in a deceptive scheme and course of business to expand their hedge fund clients' timing capacity in various mutual funds.
 
28. The Division has evidence that the Druffner Group acquired additional FA numbers, obtained multiple account numbers, utilized different tax identification numbers, and journaled money from one account to another in order to circumvent the mutual funds' market timing defenses.
29. PSI branch management had the capability to stop the market timing activities of the Druffner Group, but failed to take the necessary action to adequately supervise the registered agents.
D.
Failure to Prevent the Issuance of New FA numbers for the Purpose of Market Timing
30. Once a mutual fund company blocked a registered agent by FA number for market timing, one way to avoid the block was to trade with a different FA number.
31. Because mutual fund companies were trying to block the market timing trades of the Druffner Group, as identified by their FA numbers, the Druffner Group obtained multiple FA numbers to avoid detection.
32. Prior to June 2002, the Druffner Group could obtain new FA numbers by making an oral request to a PSI branch manager, administrative manager or directly to the commissions department.
33. Boston branch manager(s) approved and delegated approval for the issuance of new FA numbers for the Druffner Group.
34. In addition to individual FA numbers, all three members of the Druffner Group were issued a "Joint" FA number and used these "Joint" FA numbers to execute trades and avoid detection.
 
35. All three individual members of the Druffner Group were issued an "Also" FA number and used these "Also" FA numbers to execute trades and avoid detection.
36. On June 21, 2002, PSI issued a new policy for obtaining additional FA numbers, Joint FA numbers and "Also" FA numbers.
37. PSI required a "FA Production Number Request/Change Form" to be completed and a business rationale given for such a request.
38. The request for an additional FA number required approval from both the branch manager and the regional business manager.
39. Even after the new 2002 policy, the Boston branch manager approved and delegated approval for the issuance of new FA numbers for members of the Druffner Group.
40. The Division has evidence that the Druffner Group sought to obtain these additional FA numbers as a tool to conceal their identities as market timers.
41. The Druffner Group continued to obtain additional FA numbers by alleging that the new numbers were needed for commission splits.
42. However, at all times the overall commission split for the Druffner Group remained: Druffner 70%, Ficken 20% and Ajro 10% regardless of which FA number the group utilized for an account, an individual trade or an exchange.
43. The Druffner Group created their own pool of FA numbers with which to trade in direct violation and avoidance of the PSI policy that was intended to eliminate the use of multiple FA numbers to evade the mutual funds' market timing police.
44. The Boston branch manager knew, or should have known, that the Druffner Group's purpose for requesting new FA numbers was to further the market timing activity.
 
45. PSI did not make inquiries either during branch audits or at any other time as to the issuance of multiple FA numbers such as: the Ajro/Druffner number, the Druffner/Ajro number, the Druffner/Ficken number, the Ficken/Druffner number, the Ajro/Ficken number, the Ficken/Ajro number, the Druffner/Ficken/Ajro group number, the Druffner "Also" number, the Ficken "Also" number, or the Ajro "Also" number.
46. Moreover, PSI made no formal compliance inquiry into these matters and failed to prevent the Druffner Group from trading in violation of the trading limitations imposed by the mutual fund companies.
E.
Failure to Prevent the Use of Different Branch Prefixes for the Purpose of Market Timing
47. The primary account prefixes at PSI's Boston branch were OBB and 041.
48. Many mutual fund companies would initially only block the OBB and 041 prefixes associated with the Boston branch and the Druffner Group's FA numbers.
49. The Druffner Group requested that their market timing clients' accounts be established with different branch prefixes (other than the Boston branch's primary prefixes), such as ERS, TMT, TMU, BTL, and ERE, to effectively expand the number of FA numbers at their disposal.
50. The use of branch prefixes other than OBB and 041 allowed the Druffner Group to multiply the number of available FA numbers and continue excessive short-term trading.
51. PSI received numerous market timing warning and termination letters from mutual fund companies identifying many of the multiple combinations of FA numbers associated with different branch prefixes utilized by the Druffner Group.
52. These communications expressed frustration with PSI registered agents for obtaining multiple FA numbers and the failure of PSI to curtail this activity.
 
53. PSI branch management was aware that the Druffner Group's multiple FA numbers were used to circumvent mutual funds' market timing restrictions.
54. Through the use of the multiple FA numbers, the Druffner Group was able to continue to engage in the market timing activity that the mutual fund companies sought to block.
55. Although certain mutual fund companies communicated their knowledge of the Druffner Group's tactics to PSI, no formal compliance inquiry resulted.
56. The failure of PSI to take effective action after notification by mutual fund companies allowed the Druffner Group to continue violating mutual fund policies and procedures regarding market timing.
F.
Failure to Prevent the Opening of New Accounts for the Purpose of Market Timing
57. If a mutual fund company blocked trading privileges by account number rather than FA number, the Druffner Group often set up new account numbers, journaled money to the new accounts and continued to execute market timing transactions within the new accounts until blocked.
58. The Druffner Group opened new accounts on a regular basis for hedge fund clients.
59. For example, one hedge fund client had approximately 80 different accounts opened by the Druffner Group.
60. The Division has evidence that most of these different accounts were established for the purpose of avoiding detection by mutual fund companies and continuing the market timing activity.
 
61. Maintaining a large number of accounts gave the Druffner Group the ability to trade after a mutual fund company blocked a particular account number for market timing activity.
62. The opening of new offshore and international hedge fund accounts required multiple approvals from PSI departments above the branch manager.
63. Regional and branch manager personnel did not question the Druffner Group as to the business rationale for opening so many accounts on behalf of one client, particularly in light of mutual fund companies' warning and/or termination letters repeatedly shutting down account numbers previously opened.
64. In order to avoid suspicion, both internally at PSI and with the mutual funds' market timing police, the Druffner Group advised clients to establish new accounts in a different name and, to the extent possible, utilize a different tax identification number for the new accounts.
65. This tactic served to prevent all the accounts from being identified as belonging to the same client, thereby hindering the mutual fund companies from successfully blocking the trading by the client name or a particular tax identification number.
66. While branch management continued to approve multiple account numbers for the Druffner Group, PSI continued to receive numerous warning or block letters from mutual fund companies specifically identifying the use of multiple account numbers by the Druffner Group's clients.
 
G.
Failure to Detect and Prevent the Journaling of Money Between Accounts
67. When a mutual fund company blocked one account, the Druffner Group would often journal the client's money to another account to avoid detection by the market timing police and continue trading, at all times, despite notice from the mutual fund company to stop.
68. Boston branch managers routinely approved the journaling of money between client accounts for the Druffner Group, failing to recognize that the purpose of each request was to fund new accounts in order to avoid detection by the mutual fund market timing police.
69. PSI branch management knew that multiple account numbers were established for each of the Druffner Group's hedge fund clients engaged in market timing and did not make a reasonable inquiry into the frequent journaling of money between those accounts.
H.
Failure to Prevent Multiple Accounts Established Under Client Tax Identification Numbers
70. The Division has evidence that the Druffner Group recommended that hedge fund clients utilize different tax identification numbers and establish different account registrations in order to circumvent market timing restrictions.
71. The Druffner Group established multiple accounts for one client and, even though the accounts had the same tax identification number, each account would have a different account registration.
72. For example, a hedge fund client of the Druffner Group had one of its tax identification numbers associated with three different accounts, each with a different registration.
73. The Division has evidence that the Druffner Group facilitated the establishment of different account registrations utilizing the same or different tax identification numbers in order to circumvent market timing restrictions.
 
74. This served to prevent all the accounts from being identified as belonging to the same client, thereby hindering the mutual fund companies from successfully blocking the trading activity by the client.
75. PSI branch management failed to recognize that the Druffner Group was manipulating registrations to further the market timing activity.
76. Mutual fund companies made PSI aware that registered agents were engaged in this practice, yet PSI took no effective measures to stop it.
I.
Failure to Detect and Prevent Trading Below Thresholds
77. While market timing can occur in any mutual fund, attention is drawn to a fund that experiences large and frequent transactions.
78. As a result, the Division has evidence that mutual fund companies established various thresholds for trades, which were dependent on the nature and size of a fund.
79. The mutual fund companies viewed trading at or above these thresholds as a "trigger" to identify potential market timing activity.
80. PSI branch management failed to detect a pattern by the Druffner Group of journaling money between multiple accounts of the same client in order to split transactions into dollar amounts that would fall below the mutual fund companies' thresholds.
81. PSI branch management failed to identify a pattern employed by the Druffner Group to place multiple trades for one client below certain thresholds to avoid detection.
J.
PSI's Market Timing Policies
82. On November 15, 2000 PSI registered agents received a memo titled "New Policy on Market Timing Based Trading for Prudential Mutual Funds." Market timing in wrap products was defined to be more than one round trip per quarter or more than four round trips per year.
 
83. According to the new 2000 PSI policy, market timing was prohibited in PruChoice, Target and Strategic Partners funds and stated: "We will continue to monitor excessive trading activity and may refuse purchase orders or exchanges into our Funds if any person, group or commonly controlled account as described in our Fund prospectuses."
84. On January 8, 2003, PSI issued a market timing policy stressing "inappropriate timing activities ." (emphasis in the original)
will continue to be monitored by the product manufacturer
85. PSI will comply with the manufacturer's restriction requests and such restrictions "will be applied to associated FA numbers, including joint and also numbers." (emphasis in the original)
all
86. The January 2003 market timing policy also stated clearly:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(emphasis in the original)
 
K.
PSI Failed Effectively to Implement Policy Change
87. Notwithstanding the 2003 market timing policy, members of PSI's mutual fund exchange desk were given no formal compliance training with respect to this or any other market timing policy.
88. The 2003 market timing policy was a continuation of PSI's existing procedure regarding mutual fund companies' requests to block market timing by registered agent FA number and/or by client account number.
89. PSI took the position that the duty of monitoring detection of market timing activities was the responsibility of the mutual fund companies in which the transactions occurred.
90. Certain of PSI branch management continued to approve additional FA numbers, new accounts for existing market timing clients, and the journaling of money between market timing accounts for the registered agents engaged in market timing activity.
91. At no time were any members of the Druffner Group, or any other PSI registered agents, subjected to any of the disciplinary actions set out in the 2003 policy.
92. The Division has evidence that the Druffner Group continued to engage in the acts and practices integral to their market timing strategy, yet prohibited by the 2003 policy.
93. PSI failed to implement an effective compliance inquiry into the acts and practices exhibited by the Druffner Group and failed to meaningfully implement the new market timing policy.
L.
Failure to Supervise Market Timing Activity
94. PSI branch management is responsible for the conduct of its registered agents at the Boston branch and the supervision of the registered agents within that office.
95. Branch managers, regional business managers, risk and compliance personnel were made aware of the market timing practices by the Druffner Group.
 
96. While PSI implemented policies during the relevant time period, PSI branch management failed to effectively stop the market timing practices of the Druffner Group.
97. PSI branch management approved the Druffner Group's requests for additional FA numbers, new account numbers, and the journaling of money that furthered the scheme by the registered agents to continue market timing.
98. As a result, Druffner became the largest producer at the Boston branch and one of PSI's highest producing registered agents.
99. PSI branch management failed to prevent the Druffner Group from utilizing tactics such as those noted above, which allowed them to obscure their identities and conceal the identities of their clients.
100. PSI's branch management failed to make reasonable inquiries in response to red flags and consequently failed to take corrective action allowing the clients of the Druffner Group to continue their market timing activity, which profited both the Druffner Group and PSI.
A. Count I: Violations of  101
1. Section 101 of the Act states:
It is unlawful for any person, in connection with the offer, sale, or purchase of any security, directly or indirectly
(1) to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud;
(2) to make any untrue statement of a material fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading, or
(3) to engage in any act, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person.
 
2. Respondent violated Section 101 of the Act because PSI knowingly failed to detect the fraudulent scheme that Boston branch registered agents were engaged in to circumvent market timing controls for the benefit of the company and to the detriment of long-term shareholders.
3. The Respondent's conduct as described above shows that the Respondent failed to reasonably supervise its registered agents and employees to assure compliance with this chapter.
B. Count II: Violations of  204(a)(2)(G)
1. Section 204(a)(2)(G) of the Act states:
(a) The secretary may by order impose an administrative fine or censure or deny, suspend, or revoke any registration or take any other appropriate action if he finds (1) that the order is in the public interest and (2) that the applicant or registrant or, in the case of a broker-dealer or investment adviser, any partner, officer, or director, any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions, or any person directly or indirectly controlling the broker-dealer or investment adviser:
(G) has engaged in any unethical or dishonest conduct or practices in the securities, commodities or insurance business;
2. Respondent violated Section 204(a)(2)(G) of the Act because it failed to reasonably supervise its registered agents and employees thereby engaging in unethical and dishonest practices in the securities business.
C. Count III: Violations of  204(a)(2)(J)
1. Section 204(a)(2)(J)of the Act states:
The secretary may by order deny, suspend, or revoke any registration if he finds (1) that the order is in the public interest and (2) that the applicant or registrant
(J) has failed reasonably to supervise agents, investment adviser representatives or other employees to assure compliance with this chapter;
 
2. Respondent violated Section 204(a)(2)(J) of the Act because PSI failed to reasonably supervise the Druffner Group and failing to prevent its registered agents from utilizing tactics to obscure their identities and conceal the identities of their clients, which furthered the fraudulent market timing scheme.
D. Count IV: Violations of 950 CMR  12.204(1)(a)(28)
1. 950 CMR  12.204(1)(a)(28) states in pertinent part:
(1) .
Dishonest and unethical practices in the securities business
(a) . Each broker-dealer shall observe high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade in the conduct of its business. Acts and practices, including, but not limited to the following, are considered contrary to such standards and constitute dishonest or unethical practices which are grounds for imposition of an administrative fine, censure, denial, suspension or revocation of a registration, or such other appropriate action:
Broker-dealers
28. Failing to comply with any applicable provision of the NASD Rules of Fair Practice or any applicable fair practice or ethical standard promulgated by the SEC or by a self-regulatory organization approved by the SEC.
2. NASD Conduct Rule 2110 provides:
A member, in the conduct of his business, shall observe high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade.
3. IM-2310-2. Fair Dealing with Customers provides a guide describing some practices that violate the "responsibility for fair dealing" including among other things:
(3) Trading in Mutual Fund Shares
Trading in mutual fund shares, particularly on a short-term basis. It is clear that normally these securities are not proper trading vehicles and such activity on its face may raise the question of Rule violation.
4. NASD Conduct Rule 3010 provides in pertinent part:
Each member shall establish and maintain a system to supervise the activities of each registered agent and associated person that is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable securities laws and regulations, and with applicable NASD Rules. Final responsibility for proper supervision shall rest with the member.
 
5. The Respondent violated NASD Rule 2110 and 950 CMR  12.204(1)(a)(28) by failing to effectively prevent the fraudulent tactics utilized by the Druffner Group in furtherance of the market timing scheme.
6. The Respondent violated NASD Rule 3010 and 950 CMR  12.204(1)(a)(28) by failing to detect and prevent the Druffner Group from engaging in a fraudulent scheme to market time; failing to have written supervisory procedures that adequately assured compliance with federal and state securities laws; failing to meaningfully enforce existing supervisory policies and procedures; and by failing to take reasonable corrective action in response to repeated warnings by mutual fund companies.
7. Accordingly, by failing to comply with 950 CMR  12.204(a)(28) and the provisions of the NASD Conduct Rules, Respondent engaged in unethical or dishonest practices in the securities business.
E. Count V: Violations of 950 CMR 12.203(3)(a)
1. 950 CMR  12.203(3)(a) states in pertinent part:
Each broker-dealer must comply with the supervision requirements set forth in the NASD's Rules of Fair Practice.
2. The Respondent violated NASD Rule 3010 and 950 CMR  12. 12.203(3)(a) by failing to detect and prevent the Druffner Group from engaging in a fraudulent scheme to market time; failing to have written supervisory procedures that adequately assured compliance with federal and state securities laws; failing to meaningfully enforce existing supervisory policies and procedures; and by failing to take reasonable corrective action in response to mutual fund company repeated warnings.
 
it is hereby , by Consent, as follows:
THEREFORE,
ORDERED
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon issuance of an appropriate Order and after a fair hearing, the Enforcement Section may re-institute the action that had been brought against the Respondent.
 
Issued: August 28, 2006
 

Exhibit 10.3
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 54371/August 28, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-12400
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") deems it appropriate and in the public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") against Prudential Equity Group, LLC, formerly known as Prudential Securities Inc. ("Respondent").
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the "Offer") which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission's jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these proceedings, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Order"), as set forth below.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent's Offer, the Commission finds
1
that:
A. Respondent
1. Prior to July 1, 2003, Prudential Securities Inc. ("PSI") was an indirect wholly owned broker-dealer subsidiary of Prudential Financial, Inc. ("Prudential Financial"). Prudential Financial is a publicly-owned holding company, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, whose operating subsidiaries provide a wide range of insurance, investment management and other financial products and services to retail and institutional customers including insurance brokers and investment managers. On July 1, 2003, PSI transferred the assets relating to its U.S. retail securities brokerage operations to a newly formed holding company, now named Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC ("WSFH"). Prudential Financial presently owns 38% of WSFH and Wachovia Corporation owns 62% of WSFH. Since July 1, 2003, PSI's former U.S. retail securities brokerage business has operated as part of Wachovia Securities, LLC. Following the asset transfer, PSI converted from a stock corporation into a limited liability company and was renamed Prudential Equity Group, LLC ("PEG"). PEG is a broker-dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers and the New York Stock Exchange. PEG provides equity research, sales and trading to domestic and international institutional customers and is a successor entity to PSI. Prudential Financial continues to own 100% of the equity interests in PEG.
B. Summary
2. This matter concerns a fraudulent market timing scheme perpetrated by PSI registered representatives (collectively, the "Representatives") whose business involved market timing to defraud at least fifty mutual funds and their long-term shareholders. Beginning in at least September 1999 and continuing through at least June 2003 (the "Relevant Period"), the Representatives used deceptive trading practices to conceal their identities, and those of their customers, to evade mutual funds' prospectus limitations on market timing. These practices included the use of multiple broker identifying numbers (known as Financial Advisor, or "FA" numbers) and multiple customer accounts; the use of accounts coded as confidential in PSI's systems; and the Representatives' use of "under the radar" trading to avoid notice by mutual funds. Typically, mutual funds screened for market timing trades only above a designated dollar amount. The practice of "under the radar" trading refers to the Representatives' splitting of one trade into numerous smaller ones to avoid detection by mutual funds.
 
 
3. As early as the fourth quarter 1999, several mutual fund companies identified the Representatives' use of deceptive trading practices and notified PSI of the Representatives' conduct. In May 2002, PSI itself determined that its top-producing registered representative used deceptive trading practices to avoid notice by mutual funds. Throughout the Relevant Period, PSI received hundreds of notices from mutual fund companies that identified the Representatives' conduct and asked the firm to take steps to curtail their deceptive market timing practices.
4. Despite PSI's increasing awareness of the Representatives' fraudulent market timing practices, the firm elected to continue the business of market timing. Rather than discipline or sanction any of the Representatives or even curtail their ability to open additional accounts for their market timing customers, PSI failed to prevent their conduct from continuing and actually began to track the Representatives' gross revenues. In 2001, for example, the Representatives generated more than $16 million in gross commission revenues for the firm, most of which was in danger of being eliminated had the firm phased out market timing at that time. Similarly, the Representatives generated approximately $23 million in gross commission revenues in 2002, and continued to generate comparable revenues throughout the Relevant Period.
5. PSI's policies and procedures were ineffective in curtailing the Representatives' fraud and were largely not enforced. Even in situations where PSI purportedly enforced any of these policies, PSI senior officers undermined them by granting exceptions for PSI's largest producing registered representatives. Additionally, PSI repeatedly failed to deprive the Representatives of their inappropriate use of hundreds of FA numbers, even though the use of multiple FA numbers was the primary means by which the Representatives carried out their fraud. PSI finally issued a market timing policy in January 2003, but the firm did not fully enforce procedures in that policy to curtail the Representatives' scheme. PSI also failed to make and keep required records concerning the Representatives' trading practices. As a result of the conduct described above, PSI violated the antifraud and books and records provisions of the federal securities laws.
C. Background
6. Market timing includes frequent buying and selling of shares of the same mutual fund or buying or selling of mutual fund shares in order to exploit inefficiencies in mutual fund pricing. Though not illegal , market timing can harm mutual fund shareholders because it can dilute the value of their shares, if the market timer is exploiting pricing inefficiencies, or disrupt the management of the mutual fund's investment portfolio and can cause the targeted mutual fund to incur costs borne by other shareholders to accommodate frequent buying and selling of shares by the market timer.
per se
7. Beginning in the late 1990s, many mutual funds determined that market timing
 
harmed their long-term shareholders. As a result, they began to monitor market timing in their funds' shares and imposed restrictions on excessive trading. Such restrictions limited the number of trades that an account holder could place in a fund's shares and often were set forth in the funds' prospectuses. Many funds monitored trading activity to detect any violations of these prospectus limitations.
8. Most mutual funds received trade instructions from PSI through the National Securities Clearing Corporation ("NSCC"). NSCC is a centralized trade clearance and settlement system that linked the Representatives, PSI, and virtually all mutual fund companies. To place trades that were transmitted through NSCC, the Representatives were required to identify their FA number and a customer account to mutual funds on trade tickets. PSI appended additional information to the Representatives' orders and transmitted the transactions through NSCC to the mutual fund companies.
9. Some mutual funds screened for excessive short-term trading by reviewing FA and customer account numbers that the Representatives transmitted to them via NSCC. Some also monitored for excessive short-term trading by trade size and principal amount and by the branch code attached to a trade.
1
Typically, if a fund concluded that a shareholder had violated its exchange limitations, the fund would attempt to prevent, or "block" additional trades in a fund or fund family by that shareholder. If a fund determined that a particular PSI registered representative or shareholder had violated its exchange limitations, the fund would send a "block letter" to PSI. Block letters varied but generally notified PSI of the mutual fund's intention to block the registered representative's or customer's transaction and often asked PSI to take steps to preclude a particular registered representative or customer account from engaging in additional trades in a particular fund or fund family.
10. Because these mutual funds monitored for excessive trading by FA number and/or customer account number, the Representatives altered their use of these numbers to defraud these funds and the funds' long-term shareholders. By altering their use of these numbers, the Representatives tricked mutual fund companies into accepting trades that the funds otherwise would have rejected.
D. The Representatives' Deceptive Conduct
11. During the Relevant Period, the Representatives engaged in a fraudulent scheme to circumvent blocks imposed by mutual funds on their trading privileges. The Representatives' scheme worked as follows. The Representatives' customers, typically hedge funds, asked the Representatives to purchase and sell mutual funds on a short-term basis on their behalf. The
 
 
Representatives, however, knew that mutual funds tracked their trades by FA number and customer account number, and they knew that if they placed short-term mutual fund trades for their customers using a single FA or account number, the mutual funds would likely determine the number of trades was excessive and would block any further trades by them.
12. The Representatives, therefore, devised a scheme to conduct their customers' trading using dozens of customer accounts, often established under fictitious names, and multiple FA numbers to make it difficult for mutual funds to identify their customers' market timing. When the mutual funds succeeded in blocking certain FA numbers or customer accounts from further trading, the Representatives then used other FA numbers and customer accounts that had not yet been blocked to evade the funds' restrictions and continue to trade.
a. The Boston Registered Representatives
13. For example, one group of PSI registered representatives based in its Boston, Massachusetts branch office (the "Boston Representatives") repeatedly used these deceptive practices to defraud mutual funds throughout the Relevant Period. The Boston Representatives consisted of a group of three PSI registered representatives and several assistants. The group had five customers for whom it placed market timing trades, each of whom acted on behalf of one or more hedge funds. During the Relevant Period, PSI received approximately $8 million from the Boston Representatives' market timing activities, of which group members received approximately $4.6 million. As a result of this business, the head of the group quickly rose to become one of PSI's top producers.
14. Many of the mutual funds in which the Boston Representatives traded screened for market timing trades by FA and customer account numbers. Many fund companies sent notices to PSI that complained that the group's trades had violated prospectus limitations. Some mutual funds announced steps they had taken to preclude the Boston Representatives from further trading while others asked that PSI take steps to block further trades by the group in the fund.
15. During the Relevant Period, the Boston Representatives used at least thirteen FA numbers and hundreds of customer accounts (for what were, in reality, only five customers) to circumvent these blocks and preclude new blocks. The Boston Representatives' use of these devices in connection with market timing allowed group members to continue to place trades in funds that had taken steps to preclude them from further trading. Their scheme created the impression that transactions originated from many registered representatives and represented many different customers. In fact, what appeared to the mutual funds to be thousands of separate transactions submitted by many registered representatives for many unrelated customers was actually a systematic pattern of market timing by group members on behalf of their five hedge fund customers.
 
b. The Garden City Representative
16. Another PSI registered representative based in its Liberty Plaza and Garden City, New York branch offices (the "Garden City Representative") used these same deceptive practices to defraud mutual funds throughout the Relevant Period. The Garden City Representative headed a team of registered representatives and assistants, although he very rarely reported to work at any PSI location. He had five customers for whom he placed market timing trades, each of whom acted on behalf of one or more hedge funds. During the Relevant Period, PSI received approximately $9.8 million from the Garden City Representative's market timing activities (of which the Garden City Representative received approximately $4.7 million). The Garden City Representative was the top producing registered representative at PSI throughout the Relevant Period.
17. Like the Boston Representatives, the Garden City Representative traded in mutual funds that screened for market timing by FA and customer account numbers. During the Relevant Period, approximately fifty mutual funds complained to PSI about the Garden City Representative's trading activity. Many mutual funds specifically identified to PSI his use of deceptive trading strategies to evade blocks the fund companies had imposed.
18. To evade these blocks, the Garden City Representative maintained 49 different FA numbers and hundreds of customer account numbers (for what were, in reality, only five customers). His use of these devices to market time created the impression that the trades originated from many registered representatives and many customers. By shifting trades from one FA number to another, or from one customer account to another, the Garden City Representative concealed his identity and was able to place trades in mutual funds where PSI previously had blocked his trading under his other FA numbers and accounts.
c. The Special Accounts Representatives
19. Another group of PSI registered representatives based in a New York office known within the firm as "Special Accounts" (the "Special Accounts Representatives") also used deceptive practices to defraud mutual funds throughout the Relevant Period. The Special Accounts Representatives consisted of a group of two PSI registered representatives and several assistants. The group had three customers for which it placed market timing trades. During the Relevant Period, PSI received gross revenue of approximately $6.5 million from the Special Accounts Representatives' market timing activities, of which group members received approximately $2.5 million. As a result of this business, the heads of the group quickly achieved membership in PSI's Chairman's Club, a select group consisting of the largest producing registered representative within the firm.
20. Like the Boston Representatives and the Garden City Representative, the Special Accounts Representatives knew that most mutual funds identified excessive trading by FA and customer account numbers. They also understood that mutual funds screened for market timing by reviewing only those trades at or exceeding certain dollar amounts. The Special Accounts
 
Representatives used at least 20 FA numbers and hundreds of customer accounts (for what were, in reality, only three customers) to avoid detection by mutual funds. The Special Accounts Representatives also used "under the radar" trading to disguise their customers' trading in funds that previously had taken steps to stop them. The Special Accounts Representatives' use of these devices in connection with market timing deceived mutual funds into accepting trades they otherwise would have rejected. Like the Boston Representatives and the Garden City Representative, their scheme perpetuated the impression that transactions originated from many registered representatives and represented many different customers.
E. PSI Failed to Prevent the Representatives From Obtaining Multiple Broker Identifying and Customer Account Numbers
21. PSI failed to prevent the Representatives from obtaining several different forms of broker identifying numbers. Consequently, the Representatives used these numbers to perpetrate their scheme to defraud. When registered representatives began their employment with PSI, PSI assigned them an FA number. Registered representatives used FA numbers to open customer accounts, execute trades, and track their commissions. When registered representatives worked as a team to service common customers, PSI provided "Joint" numbers. Joint numbers ostensibly represented a commission split between two or more registered representatives. Here, the Representatives acquired and used Joint numbers for improper purposes. The numbers were not used to split commissions, but rather to facilitate the Representatives' ability to trade after their other broker identifying numbers had been blocked from trading. PSI also provided the Representatives with "Also" numbers. The purported purpose of "Also" numbers was to allow the Representatives' customers to access only those portions of a given registered representative's portfolio that belonged to that customer or to provide certain customers with commission discounts. The Representatives, however, used Also numbers improperly in the same manner as they used FA and Joint numbers  to circumvent blocks that had been imposed on their other FA numbers. Indeed, at least one mutual fund became so frustrated by its inability to identify the Representatives that it threatened to curtail the trading privileges of all registered representatives within a PSI branch to remedy the conduct.
22. Each of the Representatives maintained numerous FA, Joint, and Also numbers, and used these numbers interchangeably to execute trades for their customers. For example, the Boston Representatives used 13 broker identifying numbers to place market timing trades and the Garden City Representative used 49 broker identifying numbers. When one of the Representatives' FA, Joint, or Also numbers was blocked from trading by a particular mutual fund, he used another number assigned to him to place the trade in that fund. Although each Joint number ostensibly represented a unique commission split, in fact each team of Representatives split commissions from mutual fund purchases according to a single ratio, irrespective of which broker identifying number was used to enter the trade.
23. PSI failed to prevent the Representatives from opening hundreds of customer account numbers. The Representatives' customers maintained multiple accounts with PSI, many
 
of which bore fictitious names that had no relation to the actual customer's name. The Representatives used these customer accounts interchangeably to execute trades. When one customer account was blocked from trading by a particular mutual fund, the Representatives substituted another account for that same customer to place the trade for that customer, thereby creating the appearance that the trade originated from another customer.
24. PSI failed to prevent the Representatives from obtaining accounts for their customers that were coded as "Confidential." Confidential accounts did not identify the beneficial owner of the account on the transaction data provided to the mutual funds. Although such a designation could have a legitimate purpose, here the Representatives used confidential accounts improperly to impede the mutual funds' ability to identify which PSI registered representative or customer was market timing their funds.
25. PSI also failed to prevent the Representatives from obtaining customer account numbers with multiple branch identifiers. Typically, registered representatives located in one PSI branch office had customer accounts that had a prefix used to identify the branch location. Here, the Representatives established accounts for their hedge fund customers using multiple branch codes, which effectively impeded the mutual funds' ability to identify the particular PSI office location, as well as registered representative, that was market timing their funds. The Representatives used branch identifiers improperly as another mechanism to conceal their identities and the identities of their customers to mutual funds.
F. PSI Received Notifications of the Representatives' Deceptions
26. During the Relevant Period, mutual fund companies sent more than a thousand letters and e-mails to PSI concerning market timing by the Representatives. Many of these communications asked PSI to take steps to stop further trading by a particular customer account or FA number. Others expressly notified PSI that the Representatives used deceptive trading practices to continue placing market timing trades.
27. High level officers of PSI were aware during the Relevant Period that mutual funds were accusing the Representatives of using deceptive practices to evade the mutual funds' attempts to block the Representatives' market timing trades. For example, an individual who joined PSI in 1997 and rose to become the chief administrator of PSI's Private Client Group ("PCG") in January 1999, then to executive director of PCG in November 2000, and finally to president of PCG in December 2002 (the "Senior Officer"), received repeated notices of wrongdoing by the Representatives throughout the Relevant Period, but did not take adequate steps to stop the Representatives' fraud. Among other things, the Senior Officer received the following indications that the Representatives were committing fraud. In some cases, certain other senior managers or high level officers of PSI also received notices that the Representatives were committing fraud.
28. On November 21, 1999, a senior executive in the PSI Mutual Fund Operations
 
Division forwarded to the Senior Officer a string of e-mails concerning a complaint from a mutual fund complex that the Garden City Representative had evaded a block on two of his accounts by simply opening new accounts. Among other things, the e-mail stated:
It appears that [the Garden City Representative] circumvented this restriction by requesting new BIN [account] #s and fund accounts be established, funded by transferring shares into these new accounts on 11/8/99. Subsequently on 11/10/99, an exchange out of the money fund into our stock funds was processed, beginning market timing again.
The cover e-mail commented, "[T]his seems to be a serious matter that will only get worse."
29. On January 19, 2000, the manager of PSI's Mutual Fund Operations Division forwarded to the Senior Officer an e-mail from another mutual fund complex complaining that a member of the Boston Representatives had evaded a trading restriction by opening a new account, stating:
It appears that [the member] set up another account in December for the same client we restricted on 11/22.
30. On March 30, 2001, the head of PCG risk management sent the Senior Officer an e-mail that attached a letter from another mutual fund complex complaining that "excessive trading activity" by PSI registered representatives in its mutual funds "has become detrimental to both the funds and shareholders of the funds involved." The letter described the tactics used by PSI registered representatives to avoid having their trades canceled as follows:
Since trade cancellation began on February 26th, 2001, we have noticed several types of reactions by Prudential Financial Advisors in order to circumvent our attempts to terminate excessive trading. Originally, your Financial Advisors established new identification numbers so that they would not be recognized as a repeat offender. Secondly, Financial Advisors would transfer a fund(s) position from account to account, in order to disguise their identity. Lastly, your Financial Advisors have attempted to reduce the dollar amount of the exchange orders while simultaneously increasing the number of exchanges (in the same fund and account) in the hopes of not being identified.
31. On June 28, 2001, the Senior Officer received an e-mail from the manager of the Special Accounts branch warning him that the Special Accounts Representatives were obtaining multiple FA numbers in order to conduct their market timing, stating that:
We will have an issue soon with joint FA numbers: in order to get
 
around the MF [mutual fund] timing issue they are starting to request 99/01 split numbers with their junior partners to help them get around being shut down by some MF companies on timing.
32. On April 4, 2002, the manager of PSI's Mutual Funds Operations division sent an e-mail to other senior managers forwarding an e-mail from another mutual fund complex complaining that certain PSI registered representatives were using multiple accounts and FA numbers to evade restrictions on their market timing. The e-mail stated:
What we have seen scares us. It appears certain representatives are changing account registrations, tax id numbers, and branch and rep numbers in an effort to time the [mutual fund complex's] funds. All of these accounts have been stopped, but each day "new" ones pop up.
When the PSI chief compliance officer saw the above e-mail, he showed it to the Senior Officer. The head of PCG risk management also discussed the e-mail with the Senior Officer.
33. On April 29, 2002, the Senior Officer met with an internal PSI working group that had been analyzing market timing issues. The group described for the Senior Officer the mutual fund companies' restrictions on excessive trading, the fund companies' block letters to PSI, and the deceptive trading strategies used by certain PSI registered representatives, including multiple accounts and FA numbers.
34. On at least two occasions in May 2002, an employee of PSI's risk management division detailed for the Senior Officer several deceptive practices used by the Garden City Representative. The employee's analysis noted that in one 37-day period, the Garden City Representative had 19 different mutual fund companies request that accounts under the representative's control, or the representative as an FA, be blocked from their funds. The analysis concluded that the Garden City Representative had circumvented these requests by changing his FA number to an Also or Joint Number to avoid detection by the fund, or by changing customer account numbers and moving the assets from the blocked account to a newly established account.
35. On February 5, 2003, the director of strategic planning at PCG sent the Senior Officer (then the President and most senior officer of PCG) a string of e-mails from another mutual fund complex complaining that certain PSI registered representatives were using multiple customer accounts and FA numbers for market timing. One of the e-mails stated:
I have spoken to these reps a few times over the past several months about stopping their timing activity to no avail. Over the past several months, we have placed stops on 325 of their accounts as of 11/30/02 and continue to add accounts daily. We see new
 
accounts/rep id combinations being opened and have determined that we are not able to continue chasing them within our funds. We feel our only course of action to protect our fund shareholders is to prohibit the attached list of reps from doing business with [our funds].
Another e-mail in the string stated:
These reps have multiple rep ids and have continued to add new ones as we block the ids within the NSCC trading system for our fund complex . These reps created close to $3 billion in exchanges last year with $75 million of assets during a time in which we placed stops on 350 of their accounts.
The director of strategic planning added his own warning to the Senior Officer:
I just wanted to give you a heads up on an issue that is sure to reach your desk in the next day or two. As you can see from the attached string of notes, the senior leadership team at [a mutual fund complex] are completely frustrated with some of the tactics/strategies of FA's [the Garden City Representative and the Boston Representatives]. Previous attempts to curtail timing activity in the [mutual fund complex's] funds by blocking account activity have been thwarted by the establishment of additional FA numbers. It appears that [the mutual fund complex] is now making overtures that continued activity of this nature will threaten the relationship between Prudential and the fund company.
36. On February 11, 2003, a PCG risk officer sent an e-mail to the Senior Officer (then the President and most senior officer of PCG) that forwarded an e-mail from the Garden City branch manager about the Garden City Representative's market timing business. The branch manager questioned the effectiveness of the Mutual Fund Operations Division's internal blocking system and raised several other concerns about the Garden City Representative's activities:
Blocking of individual accounts by fund companies is extremely short-sighted in consideration of the fact that each "entity" maintains multiple accounts with our Firm.
There have been repeat offenses, at least in spirit . . .
Fund companies have been misled as to the identity of the FA's of record. Recently, [a mutual fund company] was provided with information which was at best misleading to effect the removal [of] a block.
 
[T]here is frequent journaling of funds between accounts.
At the present time, [the Garden City Representative and an assistant] either have or have had a total of 48 FA #s including single, joint and also numbers.
G. PSI's Procedures to Limit Market Timing Were Ineffective
37. Although PSI senior officers issued policies and procedures ostensibly designed to proscribe the Representatives' conduct, these policies and procedures were ineffective in scope and were never fully enforced. Moreover, even in situations where these policies and procedures purportedly were enforced, PSI senior officers undermined them by granting exceptions for its largest producing registered representatives. As a result, the Representatives' deceptions continued even after these policies and procedures were promulgated.
a. PSI's June 2002 Procedure Concerning Issuance of FA Numbers
38. In June 2002, PSI instituted a procedure concerning the issuance of FA numbers, in a purported effort to hinder the Representatives' ability to obtain "Joint" numbers and "Also" numbers to evade limitations on market timing (the "June 2002 Procedure"). The June 2002 Procedure provided, simply, that requests for "Joint" and "Also" numbers would require a documented business request and a PSI Regional Business Manager's approval. The June 2002 Procedure failed to preclude the Representatives from misusing previously issued Joint and Also numbers to evade blocks imposed by mutual fund companies nor did it preclude them from obtaining new FA numbers to facilitate their fraud. Indeed, the Garden City Representative obtained 12 new Joint and Also numbers just days before the procedure took effect, purportedly to assist him in transferring customer accounts from one PSI branch office to another. The June 2002 Procedure also did not subject the Representatives to any form of discipline or sanction if they continued to use Joint and Also numbers to evade blocks in violation of its terms.
b. PSI's January 2003 Market Timing Policy
39. After protracted discussion involving PSI senior officers during the Fall of 2002, PSI issued a market timing policy on January 8, 2003 (the "Market Timing Policy"). PSI considered, and rejected, defining market timing in the Market Timing Policy as a certain number of trades because of concerns that doing so would have too great an impact on the Representatives' revenues. PSI also rejected an absolute prohibition on the business of market timing. Instead, the Market Timing Policy provided that "inappropriate timing activities [would] continue to be monitored" by mutual fund companies and not by PSI itself.
 
40. Unlike other PSI policies concerning market timing, the Market Timing Policy expressly provided for the imposition of sanctions, including termination of employment, for the Representatives' use of "manipulative techniques" to evade mutual fund trading restrictions. Any imposition of sanctions was to be decided by a committee consisting of members of PSI's Legal, Compliance, and Risk Management divisions. Despite notifications of continuing deceptive practices received by PSI after it issued the Market Timing Policy, PSI did not form this committee and failed to take action against any of the Representatives to stop their use of "manipulative techniques" to market time.
41. The Market Timing Policy also provided that, in the event a mutual fund company asked PSI to block any one of a registered representative's FA numbers, numbers belonging to the registered representative similarly would be blocked from trading. However, PSI senior officers determined not to implement this critical aspect of the Market Timing Policy. In fact, despite the policy's clear language, PSI interpreted mutual fund block requests after it issued the Market Timing Policy in the same manner as it had previously  as narrowly as possible, blocking only the specific FA number or customer account number identified by mutual fund block requests. Thus, even after issuance of the Market Timing Policy, the Representatives were able to continue their fraudulent scheme of switching to unblocked FA numbers or customer accounts to evade blocks imposed by mutual fund companies.
all
H. PSI Profited From the Representatives' Deceptive Acts
42. PSI identified the Representatives as early as 2000 and monitored their revenues and ranks within the firm throughout the Relevant Period. The firm's Mutual Fund Operations Division, which processed the Representatives' trades in mutual funds, monitored the Representatives' activity because their rapid trading required the dedication of additional staff within the department to process the trades and strained the firm's trade processing and settlement systems.
43. In 2000, PSI began to track each quarter the gross commission revenues generated by the Representatives. PSI prepared these reports to determine the amount of income that would possibly be reduced if the firm determined to eliminate market timing as a business. In 2001, for example, the Representatives generated more than $16 million in gross commission revenues for the firm, most of which would have been eliminated had the firm phased out market timing at that time. Similarly, the Representatives generated approximately $23 million in gross commission revenues for 2002, and received another $10 million in gross commission revenues during the first half of 2003.
44. As PSI senior officers became increasingly aware of the Representatives' use of deceptions, the firm elected to continue the business of market timing. Indeed, some of the firm's senior officers were aware that the June 2002 Procedure concerning the issuance of multiple FA numbers and the January 2003 Market Timing Policy were wholly ineffective at
 
eradicating the Representatives' deceptions and the Representatives and their hedge fund customers continued this activity. During the Relevant Period, the Representatives generated approximately $50 million in gross revenues as a result of this conduct.
I. PSI Failed to Make and Keep Required Books and Records
45. PSI was required to make and keep current trade orders and trade tickets concerning the Representatives' mutual fund trading. PSI also was required to make and keep current a trade blotter that reflected the Representatives' mutual fund trading. During the relevant period, PSI failed to maintain these required books and records, and, in instances where PSI did maintain these items, they did not give the actual time at which the orders were received or the time of entry.
J. Violations of the Antifraud and Books and Records Provisions of the Federal Securities Laws
46. As a result of the conduct described above, PSI willfully violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the offer or sale of securities.
47. As a result of the conduct described above, PSI also willfully violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.
48. PSI also willfully violated Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4 thereunder. Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4 thereunder required PSI to make and keep certain books and records relating to its business, including trade blotters and trade tickets related to mutual fund trading. Implicit in the Commission's recordkeeping rules is a requirement that information contained in a required book or record be accurate. PSI failed to maintain complete and current copies of trade blotters concerning mutual fund trading and trade tickets related to mutual fund trading in a readily accessible place. In instances where PSI did maintain trade tickets, information included on them did not represent the actual time at which the orders were placed.
K. Undertakings
In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these undertakings:
49. Respondent shall cooperate fully with the staff of the Commission in any litigation, ongoing investigation, or other proceedings relating to or arising from the matters described in the This Order. In connection with such cooperation, Respondent has undertaken:
Cooperation.
 
 
 
 
Bingham McCutchen LLP
Attn: Neal E. Sullivan, Esq.
2020 K Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20006; and
 
50. . Respondent shall retain, within 60 days of the entry of this Order, the services of an independent distribution consultant ("Independent Distribution Consultant") acceptable to the staff of the Commission.
Independent Distribution Consultant
a. Respondent shall be responsible for all costs and expenses associated with the development and implementation of the Distribution Plan for the distribution of the disgorgement ordered in Section IV.B. of this Order. Such costs and expenses shall include, without limitation (i) the compensation of a tax administrator for the preparation of tax returns and/or for seeking any IRS rulings; (ii) the payment of taxes; and (iii) the payment of any distribution or consulting services as may be reasonably required by the Independent Distribution Consultant. Respondent shall cooperate with the tax administrator to see that all tax payments are timely made, and all such tax payments shall be deposited in the Qualified Settlement Fund upon notice from the tax administrator concerning the amount and the deadline for payment.
b. Respondent shall cooperate fully with the Independent Distribution Consultant to provide all information requested for its review, including providing access to its files, books, records, and personnel.
 
c. The Independent Distribution Consultant shall develop a proposed Distribution Plan for the distribution of the disgorgement ordered in Section IV.B. of this Order, and any interest or earnings thereon, according to a methodology developed in consultation with and acceptable to the staff of the Commission.
d. The Independent Distribution Consultant shall submit to Respondent and the staff of the Commission the proposed Distribution Plan no more than 180 days after the entry of this Order.
e. The proposed Distribution Plan developed by the Independent Distribution Consultant shall be binding unless, within 210 days after the date of entry of this Order, Respondent or the staff of the Commission advises, in writing, the Independent Distribution Consultant of any determination or calculation from the Distribution Plan that it considers to be inappropriate and states in writing the reasons for considering such determination or calculation inappropriate.
f. With respect to any calculation with which Respondent or the staff of the Commission do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an agreement within 240 days of the entry of this Order. In the event that Respondent and the staff of the Commission are unable to agree on an alternative determination or calculation, the determinations of the Independent Distribution Consultant shall be included in the proposed Distribution Plan.
g. Within 285 days of the date of entry of this Order, the Independent Distribution Consultant shall submit the proposed Distribution Plan for the administration and distribution of disgorgement funds pursuant to the Commission's Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R.  201.1100, , (Rule 1100 through Rule 1106). Following a Commission order approving a final plan of distribution, as provided in Rule 1104 [17 C.F.R.  201.1104] of the SEC's Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, the Independent Distribution Consultant shall take all necessary and appropriate steps to administer the final plan for distribution of disgorgement funds in accordance with the terms of the approved Distribution Plan.
et seq.
h. For the period of the engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the engagement, the Independent Distribution Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing, or other professional relationship with Respondent, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such. Any firm with which the Independent Distribution Consultant is affiliated in performance of his or her duties under this Order, or of which he/she is a member, and any person engaged to assist the Independent Distribution Consultant in the performance of his/her duties under this Order, shall not, without prior written consent of the staff of the Commission, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Respondent, or any of Respondent's present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in the capacity as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement.
 
i. For good cause shown, the staff of the Commission may alter any of the procedural deadlines set forth above. .
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent's Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A. Respondent is hereby censured.
B. Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of $270 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such payment shall be: (A) made by wire transfer, United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) wired, hand-delivered, or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies PSI as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter, wire transfer instruction, money order, or check shall be sent to David P. Bergers, District Administrator, Securities and Exchange Commission, Boston District Office, 33 Arch Street, 23rd Floor, Boston, Massachusetts 02110.
C. Respondent shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section III., paragraph 50 of this Order.
By the Commission.
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
Pursuant to Rule 9216 of NASD Code of Procedure, we submit this Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent ("AWC") for the purpose of proposing a settlement of the alleged rule violations described in Part II below. This AWC is submitted on the condition that, if accepted, NASD will not bring any future actions against us alleging violations based on the same factual findings.
We understand that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We also understand that our experience in the securities industry and disciplinary history may be factors that will be considered in deciding whether to accept this AWC. That experience and history are as follows:
Prudential Securities, Incorporated ("PSI"), n/k/a Prudential Equity Group, LLC ("PEG") (BD No. 7471), is a registered broker/dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and has been a member of this Association since November 2, 1939. PEG is wholly owned by Prudential Financial, Inc. ("Prudential Financial"). Prudential Financial is a publicly-owned holding company, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, whose operating subsidiaries provide a wide range of insurance, investment management and other financial products and services to retail and institutional customers including insurance brokers and investment managers. From at least 1998 through July 2003, PSI engaged in retail securities brokerage operations and maintained branch offices in Boston, Massachusetts and elsewhere. On July 1, 2003, Prudential Financial caused PSI to transfer the assets relating to its domestic retail securities brokerage operations to a holding company controlled by an unaffiliated entity. Following this asset transfer, PSI converted from a stock corporation into a limited liability company and was renamed PEG. PEG provides equity research, sales and trading to domestic and international institutional customers.
1
PSI has a prior NASD disciplinary history, including several NASD actions alleging supervisory deficiencies.
We specifically and voluntarily waive the following rights granted under NASD's Code of Procedure:
 
 
 
 
Further, we specifically and voluntarily waive any right to claim bias or prejudgment of the General Counsel, the NAC, or any member of the NAC, in connection with such
 
 
person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including acceptance or rejection of this AWC.
We further specifically and voluntarily waive any right to claim that a person violated the ex parte prohibitions of Rule 9143 or the separation of functions prohibitions of Rule 9144, in connection with such person's or body's participation in discussions regarding the terms and conditions of this AWC, or other consideration of this AWC, including its acceptance or rejection.
 
From at least January 1, 2001 to July 1, 2003 (the "relevant period"), certain of PSI's registered representatives engaged in deceptive activities in order to make improper market timing transactions in mutual funds on behalf of their clients. The registered representatives used multiple customer account numbers and/or representative numbers (also referred to as "FA numbers" at PSI) to evade the trading restrictions ("blocks") that certain mutual funds imposed on market timing transactions. For example, following the imposition of a block, the representatives just placed the market timing trades in another account or, if an FA number had been restricted, the representatives placed trades using another FA number. PSI failed to prevent this activity. As a result, representatives defrauded mutual funds and their shareholders by misrepresenting their identities (through the use of multiple FA numbers) and the identities of their brokerage clients (through the use of multiple customer account numbers) to engage in market timing after the mutual funds had placed blocks attempting to prohibit such trading.
As a result of the violative conduct, at least 1,600 PSI customer accounts were collectively able to purchase and sell mutual fund shares worth more than $116 billion, earning those clients more than $162 million in net profits. Those market timing transactions also earned PSI nearly $50 million in gross commissions.
During the relevant period, PSI failed to maintain accurate books and records related to mutual fund transactions. Certain PSI representatives, despite time being material to the transaction, routinely failed to document the time the customer order was received. For example, there was an absence of time stamps on numerous order tickets in the Boston branch office, making it difficult to determine whether the order was received before the 4:00 p.m. market close on the trade date. As a result, PSI would not have been able to prevent and detect any late trading in mutual fund shares. Indeed, the volume of market timing business in the Boston branch office created significant risk of late trading. Mutual fund orders were often transmitted to PSI's Mutual Fund Operations department after 4:00 p.m. for processing.
 
Since at least 1998, PSI was aware that its Boston and three of its New York branch offices, among others, had representatives that primarily engaged in market timing transactions. Indeed, beginning in 2002, the firm's Risk Management Department had numerous meetings on the activities of those registered representatives. PSI, however, failed to have an adequate supervisory system and written supervisory procedures relating to market timing activities, mutual fund exchanges, and detecting and preventing any late trading of mutual fund shares.
During the relevant period, PSI maintained branch office locations throughout the United States. Some of those branch office locations, including those located in Boston, Massachusetts, Garden City, New York, and New York, New York, maintained relationships with certain clients, including hedge funds, which engaged in "market timing" of mutual funds. Market timing is essentially the frequent trading of mutual fund shares in order to take advantage of pricing inefficiencies or market movements. Market timing can dilute the value of shares and raise fund transaction costs.
During the relevant period, PSI generally processed hundreds of separate mutual fund transactions weekly for its market timing hedge fund clients. In many instances, the hedge fund clients sent facsimiles to the PSI representative in the morning, which identified hundreds of potential mutual fund trades that the hedge fund clients might want to transact on that day or in the days ahead. Thereafter, typically in the late afternoon, the hedge fund clients would contact the PSI representatives to execute some or all of the trades on the list. The PSI registered representatives would then, often frantically, attempt to enter the trades into PSI's order entry system before the system shut down at the close of the market at 4:00 p.m. Given the number of trades requested by the hedge fund clients, the representatives were often not able to enter all those trades before the close. In that event, the representatives would often fax the remaining orders to PSI's mutual funds operations desk in New York to process the trade as of that day.
Many mutual funds maintain policies and procedures to detect and prevent market timing transactions. Typically, these policies include prohibiting future transactions after a customer has already placed a certain number of trades. To enforce these limits, the funds and/or their distributors track activity by customer account number and/or FA number. Once a customer reaches the limit, the mutual funds and/or their distributors typically send "block letters" to the brokerage firm, indicating that the mutual fund company will no longer accept exchange transactions from that customer and/or the representative. For example, a block letter received by PSI during the relevant period noted that:
[T]he heightened level of exchange activity in the accounts raises concerns for the funds involved  [i]n light of the amount of recent exchange activity and the funds' concerns, no more exchanges will be allowed on these accounts. Should future exchange requests be submitted, [mutual fund distributor] will not accept them.
 
During the relevant period, PSI received thousands of communications from various mutual fund companies continually placing blocks on a limited number of representatives and their clients. As further detailed below, those PSI registered representatives engaged in a relatively straightforward scheme to evade the restrictions and continue the market timing activity.
During the relevant period, PSI knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that certain of its representatives were engaged in deceptive and manipulative practices in order to continue to make market timing trades for their clients. The firm, however, failed to prevent this misconduct. Those representatives, among other things, obtained successive customer account numbers and multiple FA numbers from PSI in order to evade or circumvent block letter restrictions and otherwise exceed the mutual fund exchange limits. If restrictions were imposed on one account, the representatives would continue market timing by transferring customer funds and placing the prohibited trades in another account. While the use of multiple accounts and FA numbers are not improper, these techniques were abused at PSI. For example, one group of three representatives in PSI's Boston branch office used 183 accounts for just seven different hedge fund clients engaged in market timing.
per se
The Boston branch representatives also obtained multiple FA numbers in order to continue the market timing strategy. If a mutual fund imposed a block on a representative, the representatives would continue market timing by placing the prohibited trades using another FA number. As a result, clients that were blocked from additional mutual fund transactions were able to continue market timing because of the representatives' ability to obtain a new FA number to circumvent the block.
PSI knew, or was reckless in not knowing, of the following fraudulent activity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This conduct constitutes separate and distinct violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, and NASD Conduct Rules 2120 and 2110, and IM-2310-2.
 
From at least January 2001 through August 2003, PSI failed to make, maintain and preserve accurate books and records related to mutual fund transactions. PSI, among other things, failed in numerous instances to make and preserve order tickets, and make, maintain and preserve adequate trade blotters, relating to mutual fund transactions. Moreover, where order tickets had been prepared, PSI failed in numerous instances to document the time the customer order was received by the firm and the time certain orders were executed.
2
For example, there was an absence of time stamps on numerous order tickets, making it difficult to determine whether the order was received before 4:00 p.m. on the trade date or whether the representative engaged in late trading by accepting and processing an order "after hours" in mutual funds. Moreover, certain orders that had time stamps had inaccurate times relating to when they were received at the firm. This conduct constitutes separate and distinct violations of Section 17 of the Exchange Act, Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4 thereunder, and NASD Conduct Rules 3110 and 2110.
Since at least 1998, PSI was aware that its Boston branch office had certain representatives whose primary business was to service clients that engaged in market timing activities. Indeed, the firm's Risk Management Department had numerous meetings on the activities of those representatives. Nevertheless, PSI failed to maintain a reasonable and adequate supervisory system and written supervisory procedures relating to market timing, mutual fund exchanges, and detecting and preventing late trading of mutual fund shares. PSI failed to ensure in those areas that its written supervisory procedures were updated, maintained and enforced; and that they were reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the applicable rules and regulations. The deficiencies in PSI's system and procedures included the following areas:
 
 
 
the transfer of money between the client's accounts. The establishment of multiple accounts, the widespread use of LOAs by market timing clients, and the frequent transfer of funds among market timing clients' accounts, were indications to PSI of potential misconduct. The firm, however, failed to establish policies and procedures that were reasonably designed to prevent and detect the misuse of new accounts and LOAs for market timing.
 
 
 
This conduct constitutes separate and distinct violations of NASD Conduct Rules 3010 and 2110.
 
A censure and $270,000,000 in monetary sanctions. Within ten days of the issuance of this AWC, PSI shall pay the $270,000,000 into an account, not unacceptable to NASD staff, which shall be disbursed in accordance with the independent consultant plan, as further detailed below, to compensate the affected mutual funds and/or shareholders for losses sustained from at least January 1, 2001 to July 1, 2003 as a result of the improper market timing activity in PSI customer accounts and other misconduct described above. Those funds shall be disbursed only pursuant to the undertakings set forth below.
In addition, we shall comply with the following undertakings within the time periods specified (unless otherwise extended by NASD staff):
 
Retention of an Independent Consultant,
Disbursement of Funds and Certification of Payment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The sanctions imposed herein shall be effective on a date set by NASD staff.
 
 
We certify that we have read and understand all of the provisions of this AWC and have been given a full opportunity to ask questions about it, and that no offer, threat,
 
inducement, or promise of any kind, other than the terms set forth herein, has been made to induce us to submit it.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
Violated Section 10(b) of Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and NYSE Rule 476(a)(5) by using means or instrumentality of facility on national securities exchange, in connection with purchase or sale of security, to defraud, make untrue statement of material fact, or engage in act, practice, or course of business which operates as fraud or deceit; violated Section 17(a) of Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4 thereunder by failing to make and keep accurate books and records, including trade blotters and trade tickets; violated NYSE Rules 401 and 476(a)(6) by allowing certain brokers to engage in deceptive practices related to market timing of mutual funds; violated NYSE Rule 342 by failing to reasonably supervise its business activities and to establish and maintain appropriate procedures for supervision and control with respect to its business activities involving trading of mutual funds  Consent to censure, $270 million disgorgement, and undertakings.
Appearances:
 
A Hearing Officer on behalf of the New York Stock Exchange LLC ("NYSE") considered a Stipulation of Facts and Consent to Penalty entered into between NYSE Regulation, Inc.'s Division of Enforcement ("Enforcement") and Prudential Equity Group, LLC, formerly known as Prudential Securities, Inc. ("Respondent," "PSI," or the "Firm"), an NYSE member organization. Without admitting or denying guilt, Respondent consented to a finding by the Hearing Officer that it:
 
 
 
 
 
For the sole purpose of settling this disciplinary proceeding, Enforcement and Respondent stipulate to certain facts,
* the substance of which follows:
1
 
 
 
Financial"). Prudential Financial is a publicly-owned holding company, traded on the New York Stock Exchange, whose operating subsidiaries provide a wide range of insurance, investment management and other financial products and services to retail and institutional customers including insurance brokers and investment managers. On July 1, 2003, PSI transferred the assets relating to its U.S. retail securities brokerage operations to a newly formed holding company, now named Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC ("WSFH"). Prudential Financial presently owns 38% of WSFH and Wachovia Corporation owns 62% of WSFH. Since July 1, 2003, PSI's former U.S. retail securities brokerage business has operated as part of Wachovia Securities, LLC. Following the asset transfer, PSI converted from a stock corporation into a limited liability company and was renamed Prudential Equity Group, LLC ("PEG"). PEG is a broker-dealer registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers and the New York Stock Exchange. PEG provides equity research, sales and trading to domestic and international institutional customers and is a successor entity to PSI. Prudential Financial continues to own 100% of the equity interests in PEG.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Brokers' Deceptive Conduct
 
 
 
 
The Boston Brokers
 
 
 
The Garden City Broker
 
 
 
The Special Accounts Brokers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PSI Received Notifications of the Brokers' Deceptions
 
 
 
It appears that [the Garden City Broker] circumvented this restriction by requesting new BIN [account] #s and fund accounts be established, funded by transferring shares into these new accounts on 11/8/99. Subsequently on 11/10/99, an exchange out of the money fund into our stock funds was processed, beginning market timing again.
The cover email commented, "[T]his seems to be a serious matter that will only get worse."
 
It appears that [the member] set up another account in December for the same client we restricted on 11/22.
 
Since trade cancellation began on February 26
th
, 2001, we have noticed several types of reactions by Prudential Financial Advisors in order to circumvent our attempts to terminate excessive trading. Originally, your Financial Advisors established new identification numbers so that they would not be recognized as a repeat offender. Secondly, Financial Advisors would transfer a fund(s) position from account to account, in order to disguise their identity. Lastly, your Financial Advisors have attempted to reduce the dollar amount of the exchange orders while simultaneously increasing the number of exchanges (in the same fund and account) in the hopes of not being identified.
 
We will have an issue soon with joint FA numbers: in order to get around the MF [mutual fund] timing issue they are starting to request 99/01 split numbers with their junior partners to help them get around being shut down by some MF companies on timing.
 
What we have seen scares us. It appears certain representatives are changing account registrations, tax id numbers, and branch and rep numbers in an effort to time the [mutual fund complex's] funds. All of these accounts have been stopped, but each day "new" ones pop up.
When the PSI chief compliance officer saw the above email, he showed it to the Senior Officer. The head of PCG risk management also discussed the email with the Senior Officer.
 
 
 
I have spoken to these reps a few times over the past several months about stopping their timing activity to no avail. Over the past several months, we have placed stops on 325 of their accounts as of 11/30/02 and continue to add accounts daily. We see new accounts/rep id combinations being opened and have determined that we are not able to continue chasing them within our funds. We feel our only course of action to protect our fund shareholders is to prohibit the attached list of reps from doing business with [our funds].
Another email in the string stated:
These reps have multiple rep ids and have continued to add new ones as we block the ids within the NSCC trading system for our fund complex These reps created close to $3 billion in exchanges last year with $75 million of assets during a time in which we placed stops on 350 of their accounts.
The director of strategic planning added his own warning to the Senior Officer:
I just wanted to give you a heads up on an issue that is sure to reach your desk in the next day or two. As you can see from the attached string of notes, the senior leadership team at [a mutual fund complex] are completely frustrated with some of the tactics/strategies of FA's [the Garden City Broker and the Boston Brokers]. Previous attempts to curtail timing activity in the [mutual fund complex's] funds by blocking account activity have been thwarted by the establishment of additional FA numbers. It appears that [the mutual fund complex] is now making overtures that continued activity of this nature will threaten the relationship between Prudential and the fund company.
 
 
Blocking of individual accounts by fund companies is extremely short-sighted in consideration of the fact that each "entity" maintains multiple accounts with our Firm.
There have been repeat offenses, at least in spirit
Fund companies have been mislead as to the identity of the FA's of record Recently, [a mutual find company ] was provided with information which was at best misleading to effect the removal [of] a block.
[T]here is frequent journaling of funds between accounts.
At the present time, [the Garden City Broker and an assistant] either have or have had a total of 48 FA #'s including single, joint and also numbers.
PSI's Procedures to Limit Market Timing Were Ineffective
 
PSI's June 2002 Procedure Concerning Issuance of FA Numbers
 
 
PSI's January 2003 Market Timing Policy
 
 
 
PSI Profited From the Brokers' Deceptive Acts
 
 
 
 
The Hearing Officer, in accepting the Stipulation of Facts and Consent to Penalty, found Respondent guilty as set forth above.
In view of the above findings, the Hearing Officer imposed the penalty consented to by Respondent of a censure, the payment of disgorgement in the amount of $270 million,
3
and compliance with the following undertakings:
Independent Distribution Consultant. Respondent shall retain, within 60 days of this Decision's becoming final, the services of an independent distribution consultant (the "Independent Distribution Consultant") acceptable to Enforcement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
STATE OF NEW JERSEY
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
DEPARTMENT OF LAW & PUBLIC SAFETY
NEW JERSEY BUREAU OF SECURITIES
P.O. Box 47029
Newark, New Jersey 07101
(973) 504-3600
 
Pursuant to the authority granted to the Chief of the New Jersey Bureau of Securities ("Bureau") by the Uniform Securities Law (1997)  49:3-47 . (the "Securities Law"), and after investigation and review and due consideration of the facts and statutory provisions set forth below, the Bureau Chief has determined that Prudential Securities, Incorporated ("PSI" or the "Respondent") shall pay disgorgement in the amount of $270 million as part of a joint administrative settlement. Payment of this amount pursuant to an order issued in a related Securities and Exchange Commission proceeding (the "SEC Final Order") shall be deemed payment in satisfaction of this Consent Order. Respondent through counsel (Neal E. Sullivan, Esq. of Bingham McCutchen LLP appearing) now in the interest of avoiding the cost and inconvenience of formal judicial or administrative proceedings, desires to resolve this matter and consent to the form and entry of this order.
N.J.S.A.
et seq
 
WHEREAS, the Bureau is the State agency with responsibility to administer the Securities Law; and
WHEREAS, 49:3-68 provides the Bureau Chief with investigative authority necessary to determine whether there exists a violation of the Securities Laws; and
N.J.S.A.
WHEREAS, PSI is a broker-dealer registered in the State of New Jersey; and
WHEREAS, the Bureau has conducted an investigation into the fraudulent trading activities of certain PSI agents in connection with the purchasing, exchanging, and redeeming of mutual funds on behalf of their clients and discovered evidence that PSI failed to supervise the agents; and
WHEREAS, PSI is continuing to cooperate with the Bureau's ongoing investigation into the activities of the agents and others, by responding to inquiries, providing documentary evidence and other materials, and providing the Bureau with access to facts relating to the investigation, books and records, and personnel; and
WHEREAS, 49:3-67 authorizes the Bureau Chief from time to time to issue such orders as are reasonably necessary to carry out the provisions of the Securities Law; and
N.J.S.A.
WHEREAS, the Bureau Chief believes that the sanctions imposed herein are in the public interest, for the protection of investors and consistent with the policy and purposes intended by the Securities Laws, as provided in 49:3-67(b) thereof; and
N.J.S.A.
 
WHEREAS, PSI admits the jurisdiction of the Bureau, neither admits nor denies the Bureau's allegations, and solely for the purposes of this consent order, prior to a hearing on the allegations in the consent order and without an adjudication of any issue of law or fact, consents to the entry of this consent order and voluntarily agrees:
 
 
WHEREAS, this consent order concludes the investigation by the Bureau and any civil or administrative action that could be commenced under the Securities Law on behalf of the State of New Jersey as it relates to seeking civil monetary penalties or other relief against PSI for market timing-related activities.
1
WHEREAS, the Bureau Chief makes the following findings:
1. This matter concerns a fraudulent market timing scheme perpetrated by agents of PSI whose business involved market
 
 
timing to defraud at least fifty mutual funds and their long term shareholders. Beginning in at least September 1999 and continuing through at least June 2003 (the "Relevant Period"), the agents used deceptive trading practices to conceal their identities, and those of their customers, to evade mutual funds' prospectus limitations on market timing. These practices included the use of multiple identifying numbers (known as Financial Advisor, or "FA" numbers) and multiple customer accounts; the use of accounts coded as confidential in PSI's systems; and the agents' use of "under the radar" trading to avoid notice by mutual funds. Typically, mutual funds screened for market timing trades only above a designated dollar amount. The practice of "under the radar" trading refers to the agents' splitting of one trade into numerous smaller ones to avoid detection by mutual funds.
2. As early as the fourth quarter 1999, several mutual fund companies identified the agents' use of deceptive trading practices and notified PSI of the agents' conduct. In May 2002, PSI itself determined that its top-producing agent used deceptive trading practices to avoid notice by mutual funds. Throughout the Relevant Period, PSI received hundreds of notices from mutual fund companies that identified the agents' conduct and asked PSI to take steps to curtail their deceptive market timing practices.
3. Despite PSI's increasing awareness of the agents' fraudulent market timing practices, PSI elected to continue the business of market timing. Rather than discipline or sanction any of the agents or even curtail their ability to open additional
 
accounts for their market timing customers, PSI failed to prevent their conduct from continuing and actually began to track the agents' gross revenues. In 2001, for example, the agents generated more than $16 million in gross commission revenues for PSI, most of which was in danger of being eliminated had PSI phased out market timing at that time. Similarly, the agents generated approximately $23 million in gross commission revenues in 2002, and continued to generate comparable revenues throughout the Relevant Period.
4. PSI's policies and procedures were ineffective in curtailing the agents' fraud and were largely not enforced. Even in situations where PSI purportedly enforced any of these policies, PSI senior officers undermined them by granting exceptions for PSI's largest producing agents. Additionally, PSI repeatedly failed to deprive the agents of their inappropriate use of hundreds of FA numbers, even though the use of multiple FA numbers was the primary means by which the agents carried out their fraud. PSI finally issued a market timing policy in January 2003, but PSI did not fully enforce procedures in that policy to curtail the agents' scheme.
5. Market timing includes frequent buying and selling of shares of the same mutual fund or buying or selling of mutual fund shares in order to exploit inefficiencies in mutual fund pricing. Though not illegal , market timing can harm mutual
per se
 
fund shareholders because it can dilute the value of their shares, if the market timer is exploiting pricing inefficiencies, or disrupt the management of the mutual fund's investment portfolio and can cause the targeted mutual fund to incur costs borne by other shareholders to accommodate frequent buying and selling of shares by the market timer.
6. Beginning in the late 1990s, many mutual funds determined that market timing harmed their long-term shareholders. As a result, they began to monitor market timing in their funds' shares and imposed restrictions on excessive trading. Such restrictions limited the number of trades that an account holder could place in a fund's shares and often were set forth in the funds' prospectuses. Many funds monitored trading activity to detect any violations of these prospectus limitations.
7. Most mutual funds received trade instructions from PSI through the National Securities Clearing Corporation ("NSCC"). NSCC is a centralized trade clearance and settlement system that linked the agents, PSI, and virtually all mutual fund companies. To place trades that were transmitted through NSCC, the agents were required to identify their FA number and a customer account to mutual funds on trade tickets. PSI appended additional information to the agents' orders and transmitted the transactions through NSCC to the mutual fund companies.
8. Some mutual funds screened for excessive short-term trading by reviewing FA and customer account numbers that the
 
agents transmitted to them via NSCC. Some also monitored for excessive short-term trading by trade size and principal amount and by the branch code attached to a trade. Typically, if a fund concluded that a shareholder had violated its exchange limitations, the fund would attempt to prevent, or "block" additional trades in a fund or fund family by that shareholder. If a fund determined that a particular PSI agent or shareholder had violated its exchange limitations, the fund would send a "block letter" to PSI. Block letters varied but generally notified PSI of the mutual fund's intention to block the agent or customer's transaction and often asked PSI to take steps to preclude a particular agent or customer account from engaging in additional trades in a particular fund or fund family.
9. Because these mutual funds monitored for excessive trading by FA number and/or customer account number, the agents altered their use of these numbers to defraud these funds and the funds' long-term shareholders. By altering their use of these numbers, the agents tricked mutual fund companies into accepting trades that the funds otherwise would have rejected.
The Agents' Deceptive Conduct
10. During the Relevant Period, the agents engaged in a fraudulent scheme to circumvent blocks imposed by mutual funds on their trading privileges. The agents' scheme worked as follows. The agents' customers, typically hedge funds, asked the agents to purchase and sell mutual funds on a short-term basis on their behalf. The agents, however, knew that mutual funds tracked their
 
trades by FA number and customer account number, and they knew that if they placed short-term mutual fund trades for their customers using a single FA or account number, the mutual funds would likely determine the number of trades was excessive and would block any further trades by them.
11. The agents, therefore, devised a scheme to conduct their customers' trading using dozens of customer accounts, often established under fictitious names, and multiple FA numbers to make it difficult for mutual funds to identify their customers' market timing. When the mutual funds succeeded in blocking certain FA numbers or customer accounts from further trading, the agents then used other FA numbers and customer accounts that had not yet been blocked to evade the funds' restrictions and continue to trade.
The Boston Agents
12. For example, one group of PSI agents based in its Boston, Massachusetts branch office (the "Boston Agents") repeatedly used these deceptive practices to defraud mutual funds throughout the Relevant Period. The Boston Agents consisted of a group of three PSI agents and several assistants. The group had five customers for whom it placed market timing trades, each of whom acted on behalf of one or more hedge funds. During the Relevant Period, PSI received approximately $8 million from the Boston Agents' market timing activities, of which group members received approximately $4.6 million. As a result of this business, the head of the group quickly rose to become one of PSI's top producers.
 
13. Many of the mutual funds in which the Boston Agents traded screened for market timing trades by FA and customer account numbers. Many fund companies sent notices to PSI that complained that the group's trades had violated prospectus limitations. Some mutual funds announced steps they had taken to preclude the Boston Agents from further trading while others asked that PSI take steps to block further trades by the group in the fund.
14. During the Relevant Period, the Boston Agents used at least thirteen FA numbers and hundreds of customer accounts (for what were, in reality, only five customers) to circumvent these blocks and preclude new blocks. The Boston Agents' use of these devices in connection with market timing allowed group members to continue to place trades in funds that had taken steps to preclude them from further trading. This scheme created the impression that transactions originated from many agents and represented many different customers. In fact, what appeared to the mutual funds to be thousands of separate transactions submitted by many agents for many unrelated customers was actually a systematic pattern of market timing by group members on behalf of their five hedge fund customers.
The Garden City Agent
15. Another PSI agent based in its Liberty Plaza and Garden City, New York branch offices (the "Garden City Agent")
 
used these same deceptive practices to defraud mutual funds throughout the Relevant Period. The Garden City Agent headed a team of agents and assistants, although he very rarely reported to work at any PSI location. He had five customers for whom he placed market timing trades, each of whom acted on behalf of one or more hedge funds. During the Relevant Period, PSI received approximately $9.8 million from the Garden City Agent's market timing activities (of which the Garden City Agent received approximately $4.7 million). The Garden City Agent was the top producing agent at PSI throughout the Relevant Period.
16. Like the Boston Agents, the Garden City Agent traded in mutual funds that screened for market timing by FA and customer account number. During the Relevant Period, approximately fifty mutual funds complained to PSI about the Garden City Agent's trading activity. Many mutual funds specifically identified to PSI his use of deceptive trading strategies to evade blocks the fund companies had imposed.
17. To evade these blocks, the Garden City Agent maintained 49 different FA numbers and hundreds of customer account numbers (for what were, in reality, only five customers). His use of these devices to market time created the impression that the trades originated from many agents and many customers. By shifting trades from one FA number to another, or from one customer account to another, the Garden City Agent concealed his identity and was able to place trades in mutual funds where PSI previously had blocked his trading under his other FA numbers and accounts.
 
The Special Accounts Agents
18. Another group of PSI agents based in a New York office known within PSI as "Special Accounts" (the "Special Accounts Agents") also used deceptive practices to defraud mutual funds throughout the Relevant Period. The Special Accounts Agents consisted of a group of two PSI agents and several assistants. The group had three customers for which it placed market timing trades. During the Relevant Period, PSI received approximately $6.5 million from the Special Accounts Agents' market timing activities, of which group members received approximately $2.5 million. As a result of this business, the heads of the group quickly achieved membership in PSI's Chairman's Club, a select group consisting of the largest producing agents within the firm.
19. Like the Boston Agents and the Garden City Agent, the Special Accounts Agents knew that most mutual funds identified excessive trading by FA and customer account number. They also understood that mutual funds screened for market timing by reviewing only those trades at or exceeding certain dollar amounts. The Special Accounts Agents used at least 20 FA numbers and hundreds of customer accounts (for what were, in reality, only three customers) to avoid detection by mutual funds. The Special Accounts Agents also used "under the radar" trading to disguise their customers' trading in funds that previously had taken steps to stop them. The agents' use of these devices in
 
connection with market timing deceived mutual funds into accepting trades they otherwise would have rejected. Like the Boston Agents and the Garden City Agent, their scheme perpetuated the impression that transactions originated from many agents and represented many different customers.
PSI Failed to Prevent the Agents From Obtaining Multiple Identification and Customer Account Numbers
20. PSI failed to prevent the agents from obtaining several different forms of identifying numbers. Consequently, the agents used these numbers to perpetrate their scheme to defraud. When agents began their employment with PSI, PSI assigned them an FA number. The agents used FA numbers to open customer accounts, execute trades, and track their commissions. When agents worked as a team to service common customers, PSI provided "Joint" numbers. Joint numbers ostensibly represented a commission split between two or more agents. Here, the agents acquired and used Joint numbers for improper purposes. The numbers were not used to split commissions, but rather to facilitate the agents' ability to trade after their other agent identifying numbers had been blocked from trading. PSI also provided the agents with "Also" numbers. The purported purpose of "Also" numbers was to allow the agents' customers to access only those portions of a given agent's portfolio that belonged to that customer or to provide certain customers with commission discounts. The agents, however, used Also numbers improperly in the same manner as they used FA and Joint Numbers  to circumvent blocks that had been imposed on
 
their other FA numbers. Indeed, at least one mutual fund became so frustrated by its inability to identify the agents that it threatened to curtail the trading privileges of all agents within a PSI branch to remedy the conduct.
21. Each of the agents maintained numerous FA, Joint, and Also numbers, and used these numbers interchangeably to execute trades for their customers. For example, the Boston Agents used 13 identifying numbers to place market timing trades and the Garden City Agent used 49 identifying numbers. When one of the agent's FA, Joint, or Also numbers was blocked from trading by a particular mutual fund, he used another number assigned to him to place the trade in that fund. Although each joint number ostensibly represented a unique commission split, in fact each team of agents split commissions from mutual fund purchases according to a single ratio, irrespective of which agent identifying number was used to enter the trade.
22. PSI failed to prevent the agents from opening hundreds of customer account numbers. The agents' customers maintained multiple accounts with PSI, many of which bore fictitious names that had no relation to the actual customer's name. The agents used these customer accounts interchangeably to execute trades. When one customer account was blocked from trading by a particular mutual fund, the agents substituted another account for that same customer to place the trade for that customer, thereby creating the appearance that the trade originated from another customer.
 
23. PSI failed to prevent the agents from obtaining accounts for their customers that were coded as "Confidential." Confidential accounts did not identify the beneficial owner of the account on the transaction data provided to the mutual funds. Although such a designation could have a legitimate purpose, here the agents used Confidential accounts improperly to impede the mutual funds' ability to identify which PSI agent or customer was market timing their funds.
24. PSI also failed to prevent the agents from obtaining customer account numbers with multiple branch identifiers. Typically, agents located in one PSI branch office had customer accounts that had a prefix used to identify the branch location. Here, the agents established accounts for their hedge fund customers using multiple branch codes, which effectively impeded the mutual funds' ability to identify the particular PSI office location, as well as agent, that was market timing their funds. The agents used branch identifiers improperly as another mechanism to conceal their identities and the identities of their customers to mutual funds.
PSI Received Notifications of the Agents' Deceptions
25. During the Relevant Period, mutual fund companies sent more than a thousand letters and emails to PSI concerning market timing by the agents. Many of these communications asked PSI to take steps to stop further trading by a particular customer account or FA number. Others expressly notified PSI that the agents used deceptive trading practices to continue placing market timing trades.
 
26. High level officers of PSI were aware during the Relevant Period that mutual funds were accusing the agents of using deceptive practices to evade the mutual funds' attempts to block the agents' market timing trades. For example, an individual who joined PSI in 1997 and rose to become the chief administrator of PSI's Private Client Group ("PCG") in January 1999, then to become executive director of PCG in November 2000, and finally to president of PCG in December 2002 ("the Senior Officer") received repeated notices of wrongdoing by the agents throughout the Relevant Period, but did not take adequate steps to stop the agents' fraud. Among other things, the Senior Officer received the following indications that the agents were committing fraud. In some cases, certain other senior managers or high level officers of PSI also received notices that the agents were committing fraud.
27. On November 21, 1999, a senior executive in the PSI Mutual Fund Operations division forwarded to the Senior Officer a string of emails concerning a complaint from a mutual fund complex that the Garden City Agent had evaded a block on two of his accounts by simply opening new accounts. Among other things, the email stated:
It appears that [the Garden City Agent] circumvented this restriction by requesting new BIN [account] #s and fund accounts be established, funded by transferring shares into
 
these new accounts on 11/8/99. Subsequently on 11/10/99, an exchange out of the money fund into our stock funds was processed, beginning market timing again.
The cover email commented, "[T]his seems to be a serious matter that will only get worse."
28. On January 19, 2000, the manager of PSI's Mutual Fund Operations division forwarded to the Senior Officer an email from another mutual fund complex complaining that a member of the Boston Agents had evaded a trading restriction by opening a new account, stating:
It appears that [the member] set up another account in December for the same client we restricted on 11/22.
29. On March 30, 2001, the head of PCG risk management sent to the Senior Officer an email that attached a letter from another mutual fund complex complaining that "excessive trading activity" by PSI agents in its mutual funds "has become detrimental to both the funds and shareholders of the funds involved." The letter described the tactics used by PSI agents to avoid having their trades canceled as follows:
Since trade cancellation began on February 26th, 2001, we have noticed several types of reactions by Prudential Financial Advisors in order to circumvent our attempts to terminate excessive trading. Originally, your Financial Advisors established new identification numbers so that they would not be recognized as a repeat offender. Secondly, Financial Advisors would transfer a fund(s)
 
position from account to account, in order to disguise their identity. Lastly, your Financial Advisors have attempted to reduce the dollar amount of the exchange orders while simultaneously increasing the number of exchanges (in the same fund and account) in the hopes of not being identified.
30. On June 28, 2001, the Senior Officer received an email from the manager of the Special Accounts branch warning him that the Special Accounts Agents were obtaining multiple FA numbers in order to conduct their market timing, stating that:
We will have an issue soon with joint FA numbers: in order to get around the MF [mutual fund] timing issue they are starting to request 99/01 split numbers with their junior partners to help them get around being shut down by some MF companies on timing.
31. On April 4, 2002, the manager of PSI's Mutual Funds Operations division sent an email to other senior managers forwarding an email from another mutual fund complex complaining that certain PSI agents were using multiple accounts and FA numbers to evade restrictions on their market timing. The email stated:
What we have seen scares us. It appears certain representatives are changing account registrations, tax id numbers, and branch and rep numbers in an effort to time the [mutual fund complex's] funds. All of these accounts have been stopped, but each day "new" ones pop up.
 
When the PSI chief compliance officer saw the above email, he showed it to the Senior Officer. The head of PCG risk management also discussed the email with the Senior Officer.
32. On April 29, 2002, the Senior Officer met with an internal PSI working group that had been analyzing market timing issues. The group described for the Senior Officer the mutual fund companies' restrictions on excessive trading, the fund companies' block letters to PSI, and the deceptive trading strategies used by certain PSI agents, including multiple accounts and FA numbers.
33. On at least two occasions in May 2002, an employee of PSI's risk management division detailed for the Senior Officer several deceptive practices used by the Garden City Agent. The employee's analysis noted that in one 37-day period, the Garden City Agent had 19 different mutual fund companies request that accounts under the agent's control, or the agent as an FA, be blocked from their funds. The analysis concluded that the Garden City Agent had circumvented these requests by changing his FA number to an Also or Joint Number to avoid detection by the fund, or by changing customer account numbers and moving the assets from the blocked account to a newly established account.
34. On February 5, 2003, the director of strategic planning at PCG sent the Senior Officer (then the President and most senior officer of PCG) a string of emails from another mutual fund complex complaining that certain PSI agents were
 
using multiple customer accounts and FA numbers for market timing. One of the emails stated:
I have spoken to these reps a few times over the past several months about stopping their timing activity to no avail. Over the past several months, we have placed stops on 325 of their accounts as of 11/30/02 and continue to add accounts daily. We see new accounts/rep id combinations being opened and have determined that we are not able to continue chasing them within our funds. We feel our only course of action to protect our fund shareholders is to prohibit the attached list of reps from doing business with [our funds].
Another email in the string stated:
These reps have multiple rep ids and have continued to add new ones as we block the ids within the NSCC trading system for our fund complex These reps created close to $3 billion in exchanges last year with $75 million of assets during a time in which we placed stops on 350 of their accounts.
The director of strategic planning added his own warning to the Senior Officer:
I just wanted to give you a heads up on an issue that is sure to reach your desk in the next day or two. As you can see from the attached string of notes, the senior leadership team at [a mutual fund complex] are completely frustrated with some of the tactics/strategies of FA's [the
 
Garden City Agent and the Boston Agents]. Previous attempts to curtail timing activity in the [mutual fund complex's] funds by blocking account activity have been thwarted by the establishment of additional FA numbers. It appears that [the mutual fund complex] is now making overtures that continued activity of this nature will threaten the relationship between Prudential and the fund company.
35. On February 11, 2003, a PCG risk officer sent an email to the Senior Officer (then the President and most senior officer of PCG) that forwarded an email from the Garden City branch manager about the Garden City Agent's market timing business. The branch manager questioned the effectiveness of the Mutual Fund Operations division's internal blocking system and raised several other concerns about the Garden City Agent's activities:
Blocking of individual accounts by fund companies is extremely shortsighted in consideration of the fact that each "entity" maintains multiple accounts with our Firm. There have been repeat offenses, at least in spirit Fund companies have been mislead as to the identity of the FA's of record Recently, [a mutual find company] was provided with information which was at best misleading to effect the removal [of] a block.
[T]here is frequent journaling of funds between accounts. At the present time, [the Garden City Agent and an assistant] either have or have had a total of 48 FA #'s including single, joint and also numbers.
 
PSI's Procedures to Limit Market Timing Were Ineffective
36. Although PSI senior officers issued policies and procedures ostensibly designed to proscribe the agents' conduct, these policies and procedures were ineffective in scope and were never fully enforced. Moreover, even in situations where these policies and procedures purportedly were enforced, PSI senior officers undermined them by granting exceptions for its largest producing agents. As a result, the agents' deceptions continued even after these policies and procedures were promulgated.
PSI's June 2002 Procedure Concerning Issuance of FA Numbers
37. In June 2002, PSI instituted a procedure concerning the issuance of FA numbers, in a purported effort to hinder the agents' ability to obtain "Joint" numbers and "Also" numbers to evade limitations on market timing (the "June 2002 Procedure"). The June 2002 Procedure provided, simply, that requests for "Joint" and "Also" numbers would require a documented business request and a PSI Regional Business Manager's approval. The June 2002 Procedure failed to preclude the agents from misusing previously issued Joint and Also numbers to evade blocks imposed by mutual fund companies. Indeed, the Garden City Agent obtained 12 new Joint and Also numbers just days before the procedure took effect, purportedly to assist him in transferring customer accounts from one PSI branch office to another. The June 2002 Procedure also did not subject the agents to any form of discipline or sanction if they continued to use Joint and Also numbers to evade blocks in violation of its terms.
 
PSI's January 2003 Market Timing Policy
38. After protracted discussion involving PSI senior officers and attorneys during the Fall of 2002, PSI issued a market timing policy on January 8, 2003 (the "Market Timing Policy"). PSI considered, and rejected, defining market timing in the Market Timing Policy as a certain number of trades because of concerns that doing so would have had too great an impact on the agents' revenues. PSI also rejected an absolute prohibition on the business of market timing. Instead, the Market Timing Policy provided that "inappropriate timing activities [would] continue to be monitored" by mutual fund companies and not by PSI itself.
39. Unlike other PSI policies concerning market timing, the Market Timing Policy expressly provided for the imposition of sanctions, including termination of employment, for the agents' use of "manipulative techniques" to evade mutual fund trading restrictions. Any imposition of sanctions was to be decided by a committee consisting of members of PSI's Legal, Compliance, and Risk Management divisions. Despite notifications of continuing deceptive practices received by PSI after it issued the Market Timing policy, PSI did not form this committee and failed to take action against any of the agents to stop their use of "manipulative techniques" to market time.
40. The Market Timing Policy also provided that, in the event a mutual fund company asked PSI to block any one of a agent's FA numbers, all numbers belonging to the agent similarly would be blocked from trading. However, PSI senior officers
 
determined not to implement this critical aspect of the Market Timing Policy. In fact, despite the policy's clear language, PSI interpreted mutual fund block requests after it issued the Market Timing Policy in the same manner as it had previously  as narrowly as possible, blocking only the specific FA number or customer account number identified by mutual fund block requests. Thus, even after issuance of the Market Timing Policy, the agents were able to continue their fraudulent scheme of switching to unblocked FA numbers or customer accounts to evade blocks imposed by mutual fund companies.
PSI Profited From the Agents' Deceptive Acts
41. PSI identified the agents as early as 2000 and monitored their revenues and ranks within PSI throughout the Relevant Period. PSI's Mutual Funds Operations division, which processed the agents' trades in mutual funds, monitored the agents' activity because their rapid trading required the dedication of additional staff within the department to process the trades and strained PSI's trade processing and settlement systems.
42. In 2000, PSI began to track each quarter the gross commission revenues generated by the agents. PSI prepared these reports to determine the amount of income that would possibly be reduced if PSI determined to eliminate market timing as a business. In 2001, for example, the agents generated more than $16 million in gross commission revenues for PSI, most of which would have been eliminated had PSI phased out market timing at
 
that time. Similarly, the agents generated approximately $23 million in gross commission revenues for 2002, and received another $10 million in gross commission revenues during the first half of 2003.
43. As PSI senior officers became increasingly aware of the agents' use of deceptions, PSI elected to continue the business of market timing. Indeed, some of PSI's senior officers were aware that the June 2002 Procedure concerning the issuance of multiple FA numbers and the January 2003 Market Timing Policy were wholly ineffective at eradicating the agents' deceptions and the agents and their hedge fund customers continued this activity. During the Relevant Period, the agents generated approximately $50 million in gross revenues as a result of this conduct.
Solely for the purpose of this consent order and without admitting or denying the findings of fact, PSI consents to the following:
 
 
THEREFORE, it is, on this, 28 day of August, 2006, hereby ORDERED that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE PARTIES CONSENT TO THE FORM, CONTENT, AND ENTRY OF THIS CONSENT ORDER ON THE DATES UNDER THEIR RESPECTIVE SIGNATURES.
 
 

Exhibit 10.7
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of Article 23-A of the General Business Law (the "Martin Act"), Eliot Spitzer, Attorney General of the State of New York (the "Attorney General"), commenced an investigation in September 2003 into the practices, procedures and conduct of Prudential Securities Incorporated ("PSI"), during the period 1998 through September 2003 respecting market timing and late trading of mutual funds (the "Investigation");
1
WHEREAS, the Investigation was conducted in cooperation with investigations of PSI by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the State of New Jersey, the New York Stock Exchange and NASD Inc.;
WHEREAS, prior to July 1, 2003, PSI was an indirect wholly owned broker-dealer subsidiary of Prudential Financial, Incorporated ("Prudential Financial");
 
 
 
WHEREAS, on July 1, 2003, PSI transferred the assets relating to its U.S. retail securities brokerage operations to a newly formed holding company, now named Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC ("WFSH");
WHEREAS, Prudential Financial currently owns 38 percent of WSFH and Wachovia Corporation owns 62 percent of WSFH;
WHEREAS, since July 1, 2003, PSI's former U.S. retail securities brokerage business has operated as part of Wachovia Securities, LLC;
WHEREAS, in the course of the Investigation, numerous witnesses were interviewed and/or deposed and extensive documentary evidence was reviewed;
WHEREAS, Prudential Equity Group, LLC ("PEG") has cooperated in the Investigation by producing documentary evidence and witnesses and identifying evidence relevant to the Investigation;
WHEREAS, the Investigation revealed that certain practices by PSI violated the Martin Act, General Business Law ("GBL") 349, and Executive Law 63 (12);
WHEREAS, PEG has advised the Attorney General of its desire to resolve the Investigation;
WHEREAS, PEG agrees to implement certain changes with respect to securities practices and to make the payment of $270 million as set forth herein;
WHEREAS, PEG has entered into an Agreement with the Office of the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts relating to potential criminal charges for violations of the federal Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and PEG has agreed to pay a penalty of $330 million; and
 
WHEREAS, the Attorney General finds the following sanctions appropriate and in the public interest and PEG agrees to the sanctions provided herein;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Attorney General, based upon the Investigation, makes the following findings:
1. At all relevant times until on or about July 1, 2003, PSI was a Delaware corporation with its headquarters in New York, New York, was registered with the Department of Law of the State of New York as a securities broker-dealer, and conducted business in and from the State of New York.
2. The Attorney General has jurisdiction over this matter pursuant to the Martin Act, GBL  349, and Executive Law 63 (12).
A. Summary of the Fraud
3. This matter concerns a fraudulent market timing scheme perpetrated by PSI registered representatives (collectively, the "Representatives") whose business involved market timing to defraud at least 50 mutual funds and their long-term shareholders. Beginning in at least September 1999 and continuing through at least June 2003 (the "Relevant Period"), the Representatives used deceptive trading practices to conceal their identities, and those of their customers, to evade mutual funds' prospectus limitations on market timing. These practices included the use of multiple broker identifying numbers (known as Financial Advisor, or "FA," numbers) and multiple customer accounts; the use of accounts coded as confidential in PSI's systems; and the Representatives' use of "under-the-radar" trading to avoid notice by mutual
 
funds. Typically, mutual funds screened for market timing trades only above a designated dollar amount. The practice of "under-the-radar" trading refers to the Representatives' splitting of one trade into numerous smaller ones to avoid detection by mutual funds.
4. As early as the fourth quarter 1999, several mutual fund companies identified the Representatives' use of deceptive trading practices and notified PSI of the Representatives' conduct. In May 2002, PSI itself determined that its top-producing registered representative used deceptive trading practices to avoid notice by mutual funds. Throughout the Relevant Period, PSI received hundreds of notices from mutual fund companies that identified the Representatives' conduct and asked the firm to take steps to curtail their deceptive market timing practices.
5. Despite PSI's increasing awareness of the Representatives' fraudulent market timing practices, the firm elected to continue the business of market timing. Rather than discipline or sanction any of the Representatives or even curtail their ability to open additional accounts for their market timing customers, PSI failed to prevent their conduct from continuing and actually began to track the Representatives' gross revenues. In 2001, for example, the Representatives generated more than $16 million in gross commission revenues for the firm, most of which was in danger of being eliminated had the firm phased out market timing at that time. Similarly, the Representatives generated approximately $23 million in gross commission revenues in 2002, and continued to generate comparable revenues throughout the Relevant Period.
6. PSI's policies and procedures were ineffective in curtailing the Representatives' fraud and were largely not enforced. Even in situations where PSI purportedly enforced any of these policies, PSI senior officers undermined them by granting exceptions for PSI's largest
 
producing registered representatives. Additionally, PSI repeatedly failed to deprive the Representatives of their inappropriate use of hundreds of FA numbers, even though the use of multiple FA numbers was the primary means by which the Representatives carried out their fraud. PSI finally issued a market timing policy in January 2003, but the firm did not fully enforce procedures in that policy to curtail the Representatives' scheme. As a result of the conduct described above, PSI violated the Martin Act and Executive Law  63(12).
B. Background on Market Timing
7. Market timing includes frequent buying and selling of shares of the same mutual fund or buying or selling of mutual fund shares in order to exploit inefficiencies in mutual fund pricing. Market timing can harm mutual fund shareholders because it can dilute the value of their shares, if the market timer is exploiting pricing inefficiencies, or disrupt the management of the mutual fund's investment portfolio and can cause the targeted mutual fund to incur costs borne by other shareholders to accommodate frequent buying and selling of shares by the market timer.
8. Beginning in the late 1990s, many mutual funds determined that market timing harmed their long-term shareholders. As a result, they began to monitor market timing in their funds' shares and imposed restrictions on excessive trading. Such restrictions limited the number of trades that an account holder could place in a fund's shares and often were set forth in the funds' prospectuses. Many funds monitored trading activity to detect any violations of these prospectus limitations.
9. Most mutual funds received trade instructions from PSI through the National Securities Clearing Corporation ("NSCC"). NSCC is a centralized trade clearance and settlement system that linked the Representatives, PSI, and virtually all mutual fund companies.
 
To place trades that were transmitted through NSCC, the Representatives were required to identify their FA number and a customer account to mutual funds on trade tickets. PSI appended additional information to the Representatives' orders and transmitted the transactions through NSCC to the mutual fund companies.
10. Some mutual funds screened for excessive short-term trading by reviewing FA and customer account numbers that the Representatives transmitted to them via NSCC. Some also monitored for excessive short-term trading by trade size and principal amount and by the branch code attached to a trade.
2
Typically, if a fund concluded that a shareholder had violated its exchange limitations, the fund would attempt to prevent, or "block" additional trades in a fund or fund family by that shareholder. If a fund determined that a particular PSI registered representative or shareholder had violated its exchange limitations, the fund would send a "block letter" to PSI. Block letters varied but generally notified PSI of the mutual fund's intention to block the registered representative's or customer's transaction and often asked PSI to take steps to preclude a particular registered representative or customer account from engaging in additional trades in a particular fund or fund family.
11. Because these mutual funds monitored for excessive trading by FA number and/or customer account number, the Representatives altered their use of these numbers to defraud these funds and the funds' long-term shareholders. By altering their use of these numbers, the Representatives tricked mutual fund companies into accepting trades that the funds otherwise would have rejected.
 
 
C. The Representatives' Deceptive Conduct
12. During the Relevant Period, the Representatives engaged in a fraudulent scheme to circumvent blocks imposed by mutual funds on their trading privileges. The Representatives' scheme worked as follows. The Representatives' customers, typically hedge funds, asked the Representatives to purchase and sell mutual funds on a short-term basis on their behalf. The Representatives, however, knew that mutual funds tracked their trades by FA number and customer account number, and they knew that if they placed short-term mutual fund trades for their customers using a single FA or account number, the mutual funds would likely determine the number of trades was excessive and would block any further trades by them.
13. The Representatives, therefore, devised a scheme to conduct their customers' trading using dozens of customer accounts, often established under fictitious names, and multiple FA numbers to make it difficult for mutual funds to identify their customers' market timing. When the mutual funds succeeded in blocking certain FA numbers or customer accounts from further trading, the Representatives then used other FA numbers and customer accounts that had not yet been blocked to evade the funds' restrictions and continue to trade.
a. Representatives Martin Druffner, Justin Ficken, and Skifter Ajro
14. For example, one group of PSI registered representatives based in its Boston, Massachusetts, branch office repeatedly used these deceptive practices to defraud mutual funds throughout the Relevant Period. The group consisted of PSI registered representatives Martin Druffner, Justin Ficken, Skifter Ajro and several assistants (the "Druffner Group"). The Druffner Group had five customers for whom it placed market timing trades, each of whom acted on behalf of one or more hedge funds. During the Relevant Period, PSI received approximately $8 million from the Druffner Group's market timing activities, of which group members received approximately $4.6 million. As a result of this business, the head of the group, Martin Druffner, quickly rose to become one of PSI's top producers.
 
15. Many of the mutual funds in which the Druffner Group traded screened for market timing trades by FA and customer account numbers. Many fund companies sent notices to PSI that complained that the group's trades had violated prospectus limitations. Some mutual funds announced steps they had taken to preclude the Druffner Group from further trading while others asked that PSI take steps to block further trades by the group in the fund.
16. During the Relevant Period, the Druffner Group used at least thirteen FA numbers and hundreds of customer accounts (for what were, in reality, only five customers) to circumvent these blocks and preclude new blocks. The Druffner Group's use of these devices in connection with market timing allowed group members to continue to place trades in funds that had taken steps to preclude them from further trading. Their scheme created the impression that transactions originated from many registered representatives and represented many different customers. In fact, what appeared to the mutual funds to be thousands of separate transactions submitted by many registered representatives for many unrelated customers was actually a systematic pattern of market timing by group members on behalf of their five hedge fund customers.
b. Representative Frederick O'Meally
17. Another PSI registered representative based in its Liberty Plaza, New York, New York, and its Garden City, New York, branch offices, Frederick O'Meally, used these same deceptive practices to defraud mutual funds throughout the Relevant Period. O'Meally headed a team of registered representatives and assistants, although he very rarely reported to work at any PSI location. He had five customers for whom he placed market timing trades, each of whom
 
acted on behalf of one or more hedge funds. During the Relevant Period, PSI received approximately $9.8 million from O'Meally's market timing activities (of which O'Meally received approximately $4.7 million). O'Meally was the top producing registered representative at PSI throughout the Relevant Period.
18. Like the Druffner Group, O'Meally traded in mutual funds that screened for market timing by FA and customer account numbers. During the Relevant Period, approximately 50 mutual funds complained to PSI about O'Meally's trading activity. Many mutual funds specifically identified to PSI his use of deceptive trading strategies to evade blocks the fund companies had imposed.
19. To evade these blocks, O'Meally maintained 49 different FA numbers and hundreds of customer account numbers (for what were, in reality, only five customers). His use of these devices to market time created the impression that the trades originated from many registered representatives and many customers. By shifting trades from one FA number to another, or from one customer account to another, O'Meally concealed his identity and was able to place trades in mutual funds where PSI previously had blocked his trading under his other FA numbers and accounts.
c. Representatives Jason Ginder and Lawrence Kalish
20. Another group of PSI registered representatives based in a New York office known within the firm as "Special Accounts" also used deceptive practices to defraud mutual funds throughout the Relevant Period. The group consisted of Jason Ginder, Lawrence Kalish and several assistants (the "Ginder/Kalish Group"). The Ginder/Kalish Group had three customers for which it placed market timing trades. During the Relevant Period, PSI received gross revenue of approximately $6.5 million from the Ginder/Kalish Group's market timing
 
activities, of which group members received approximately $2.5 million. As a result of this business, the heads of the group quickly achieved membership in PSI's Chairman's Club, a select group consisting of only the largest producing registered representatives within the firm.
21. Like the Druffner Group and O'Meally, the Ginder/Kalish Group knew that most mutual funds identified excessive trading by FA and customer account numbers. They also understood that mutual funds screened for market timing by reviewing only those trades at or exceeding certain dollar amounts. The Ginder/Kalish Group used at least 20 FA numbers and hundreds of customer accounts (for what were, in reality, only three customers) to avoid detection by mutual funds. The Ginder/Kalish Group also used "under the radar" trading to disguise their customers' trading in funds that previously had taken steps to stop them. The registered representatives' use of these devices in connection with market timing deceived mutual funds into accepting trades they otherwise would have rejected. Like the Druffner Group and O'Meally, their scheme perpetuated the impression that transactions originated from many registered representatives and represented many different customers.
D. PSI Failed to Prevent the Representatives From Obtaining Multiple Broker Identifying and Customer Account Numbers
22. PSI failed to prevent the Representatives from obtaining several different forms of broker identifying numbers. Consequently, the Representatives used these numbers to perpetrate their scheme to defraud. When registered representatives began their employment with PSI, PSI assigned them an FA number. Registered representatives used FA numbers to open customer accounts, execute trades, and track their commissions. When registered representatives worked as a team to service common customers, PSI provided "Joint" numbers. Joint numbers ostensibly represented a commission split between two or more registered representatives. Here, the Representatives acquired and used Joint numbers for improper purposes. The numbers were
 
not used to split commissions, but rather to facilitate the Representatives' ability to trade after their other broker identifying numbers had been blocked from trading. PSI also provided the Representatives with "Also" numbers. The purported purpose of "Also" numbers was to allow the Representatives' customers to access only those portions of a given registered representative's portfolio that belonged to that customer or to provide certain customers with commission discounts. The Representatives, however, used Also numbers improperly in the same manner as they used FA and Joint numbers  to circumvent blocks that had been imposed on their other FA numbers. Indeed, at least one mutual fund became so frustrated by its inability to identify the Representatives that they threatened to curtail the trading privileges of all registered representatives within a PSI branch to remedy the conduct.
23. Each of the Representatives maintained numerous FA, Joint, and Also numbers, and used these numbers interchangeably to execute trades for their customers. For example, the Druffner Group used 13 broker identifying numbers to place market timing trades and O'Meally used 49 broker identifying numbers. When one of the Representatives' FA, Joint, or Also numbers was blocked from trading by a particular mutual fund, he used another number assigned to him to place the trade in that fund. Although each Joint number ostensibly represented a unique commission split, in fact each team of Representatives split commissions from mutual fund purchases according to a single ratio, irrespective of which broker identifying number was used to enter the trade.
24. PSI failed to prevent the Representatives from opening hundreds of customer accounts. The Representatives' customers maintained multiple accounts with PSI, many of which bore fictitious names that had no relation to the actual customer's name. The Representatives used these customer accounts interchangeably to execute trades. When one
 
customer account was blocked from trading by a particular mutual fund, the Representatives substituted another account for that same customer to place the trade for that customer, thereby creating the appearance that the trade originated from another customer.
25. PSI failed to prevent the Representatives from obtaining accounts for their customers that were coded as "Confidential." Confidential accounts did not identify the beneficial owner of the account on the transaction data provided to the mutual funds. Although such a designation could have a legitimate purpose, here the Representatives used confidential accounts improperly to impede the mutual funds' ability to identify which PSI registered representative or customer was market timing their funds.
26. PSI also failed to prevent the Representatives from obtaining customer account numbers with multiple branch identifiers. Typically, registered representatives located in one PSI branch office had customer accounts that had a prefix used to identify the branch location. Here, the Representatives established accounts for their hedge fund customers using multiple branch codes, which effectively impeded the mutual funds' ability to identify the particular PSI office location, as well as registered representative, that was market timing their funds. The Representatives used branch identifiers improperly as another mechanism to conceal their identities and the identities of their customers to mutual funds.
E. PSI Received Notifications of the Representatives' Deceptions
27. During the Relevant Period, mutual fund companies sent more than a thousand letters and e-mails to PSI concerning market timing by the Representatives. Many of these communications asked PSI to take steps to stop further trading by a particular customer account or FA number. Others expressly notified PSI that the Representatives used deceptive trading practices to continue placing market timing trades.
 
28. High level officers of PSI were aware during the Relevant Period that mutual funds were accusing the Representatives of using deceptive practices to evade the mutual funds' attempts to block the Representatives' market timing trades. For example, Michael Rice, who joined PSI in 1997 and rose to become the chief administrator of PSI's Private Client Group ("PCG") in January 1999, then to executive director of PCG in November 2000, and finally to president of PCG in December 2002, received repeated notices of wrongdoing by the Representatives throughout the Relevant Period, but did not take adequate steps to stop the Representatives' fraud. Among other things, Rice received the following indications that the Representatives were committing fraud. In some cases, certain other senior managers or high level officers of PSI also received notices that the Representatives were committing fraud.
29. On November 21, 1999, a senior executive in the PSI Mutual Fund Operations division forwarded to Rice a string of e-mails concerning a complaint from a mutual fund complex that O'Meally had evaded a block on two of his accounts by simply opening new accounts. Among other things, the e-mail stated:
It appears that [O'Meally] circumvented this restriction by requesting new BIN [account] #s and fund accounts be established, funded by transferring shares into these new accounts on 11/8/99. Subsequently on 11/10/99, an exchange out of the money fund into our stock funds was processed, beginning market timing again.
The cover e-mail commented, "[T]his seems to be a serious matter that will only get worse."
30. On January 19, 2000, the manager of PSI's Mutual Fund Operations Division forwarded to Rice an e-mail from another mutual fund complex complaining that a member of Druffner Group had evaded a trading restriction by opening a new account, stating: "It appears that [the member] set up another account in December for the same client we restricted on 11/22."
 
31. On March 30, 2001, the head of PCG risk management sent Rice an e-mail that attached a letter from another mutual fund complex complaining that "excessive trading activity" by PSI registered representatives in its mutual funds "has become detrimental to both the funds and shareholders of the funds involved." The letter described the tactics used by PSI registered representatives to avoid having their trades canceled as follows:
Since trade cancellation began on February 26
th
, 2001, we have noticed several types of reactions by Prudential Financial Advisors in order to circumvent our attempts to terminate excessive trading. Originally, your Financial Advisors established new identification numbers so that they would not be recognized as a repeat offender. Secondly, Financial Advisors would transfer a fund(s) position from account to account, in order to disguise their identity. Lastly, your Financial Advisors have attempted to reduce the dollar amount of the exchange orders while simultaneously increasing the number of exchanges (in the same fund and account) in the hopes of not being identified.
32. On June 28, 2001, Rice received an e-mail from the manager of the Special Accounts branch warning him that the Ginder/Kalish Group were obtaining multiple FA numbers in order to conduct their market timing, stating that:
We will have an issue soon with joint FA numbers: in order to get around the MF [mutual fund] timing issue they are starting to request 99/01 split numbers with their junior partners to help them get around being shut down by some MF companies on timing.
33. On April 4, 2002, the manager of PSI's Mutual Funds Operations division sent an e-mail to other senior managers forwarding an e-mail from another mutual fund complex complaining that certain PSI registered representatives were using multiple accounts and FA numbers to evade restrictions on their market timing. The e-mail stated:
What we have seen scares us. It appears certain representatives are changing account registrations, tax id numbers, and branch and rep numbers in an effort to time the [mutual fund complex's] funds. All of these accounts have been stopped, but each day "new" ones pop up.
 
When the PSI chief compliance officer saw the above e-mail, he showed it to Rice. The head of PCG risk management also discussed the e-mail with Rice.
34. On April 29, 2002, Rice met with an internal PSI working group that had been analyzing market timing issues. The group described for Rice the mutual fund companies' restrictions on excessive trading, the fund companies' block letters to PSI, and the deceptive trading strategies used by certain PSI registered representatives, including multiple accounts and FA numbers.
35. On at least two occasions in May 2002, an employee of PSI's risk management division detailed for Rice several deceptive practices used by O'Meally. The employee's analysis noted that in one 37-day period, O'Meally had 19 different mutual fund companies request that accounts under the registered representative's control, or the registered representative as an FA, be blocked from their funds. The analysis concluded that O'Meally had circumvented these requests by changing his FA number to an Also or Joint Number to avoid detection by the fund, or by changing customer account numbers and moving the assets from the blocked account to a newly established account.
36. On February 5, 2003, the director of strategic planning at PCG sent Rice (then the President and most senior officer of PCG) a string of e-mails from another mutual fund complex complaining that certain PSI registered representatives were using multiple customer accounts and FA numbers for market timing. One of the e-mails stated:
I have spoken to these reps a few times over the past several months about stopping their timing activity to no avail. Over the past several months, we have placed stops on 325 of their accounts as of 11/30/02 and continue to add accounts daily. We see new accounts/rep id combinations being opened and have determined that we are not able to continue chasing them within our funds. We feel our only course of action to protect our fund shareholders is to prohibit the attached list of reps from doing business with [our funds].
 
Another e-mail in the string stated:
These reps have multiple rep ids and have continued to add new ones as we block the ids within the NSCC trading system for our fund complex... These reps created close to $3 billion in exchanges last year with $75 million of assets during a time in which we placed stops on 350 of their accounts.
The director of strategic planning added his own warning to Rice:
I just wanted to give you a heads up on an issue that is sure to reach your desk in the next day or two. As you can see from the attached string of notes, the senior leadership team at [a mutual fund complex] are completely frustrated with some of the tactics/strategies of FA's [O'Meally and the Druffner Group]. Previous attempts to curtail timing activity in the [mutual fund complex's] funds by blocking account activity have been thwarted by the establishment of additional FA numbers. It appears that [the mutual fund complex] is now making overtures that continued activity of this nature will threaten the relationship between Prudential and the fund company.
37. On February 11, 2003, a PCG risk officer sent an e-mail to Rice that forwarded an e-mail from the Garden City branch manager about O'Meally's market timing business. The branch manager questioned the effectiveness of the Mutual Fund Operations Division's internal blocking system and raised several other concerns about O'Meally's activities:
Blocking of individual accounts by fund companies is extremely short-sighted in consideration of the fact that each "entity" maintains multiple accounts with our Firm.
There have been repeat offenses, at least in spirit . . .
Fund companies have been misled as to the identity of the FA's of record... Recently, [a mutual fund company] was provided with information which was at best misleading to effect the removal [of] a block.
[T]here is frequent journaling of funds between accounts.
At the present time, [O'Meally and an assistant] either have or have had a total of 48 FA #s including single, joint and also numbers.
 
F. PSI's Procedures to Limit Market Timing Were Ineffective
38. Although PSI senior officers issued policies and procedures ostensibly designed to proscribe the Representatives' conduct, these policies and procedures were ineffective in scope and were never fully enforced. Moreover, even in situations where these policies and procedures purportedly were enforced, PSI senior officers undermined them by granting exceptions for its largest producing registered representatives. As a result, the Representatives' deceptions continued even after these policies and procedures were promulgated.
a. PSI's June 2002 Procedure Concerning Issuance of FA Numbers
39. In June 2002, PSI instituted a procedure concerning the issuance of FA numbers, in a purported effort to hinder the Representatives' ability to obtain "Joint" numbers and "Also" numbers to evade limitations on market timing (the "June 2002 Procedure"). The June 2002 Procedure provided, simply, that requests for "Joint" and "Also" numbers would require a documented business request and a PSI Regional Business Manager's approval. The June 2002 Procedure failed to preclude the Representatives from misusing previously issued Joint and Also numbers to evade blocks imposed by mutual fund companies and it failed to preclude the Representatives from obtaining new FA numbers to facilitate their fraud. Indeed, O'Meally obtained 12 new Joint and Also numbers just days before the procedure took effect, purportedly to assist him in transferring customer accounts from one PSI branch office to another. The June 2002 Procedure also did not subject the Representatives to any form of discipline or sanction if they continued to use Joint and Also numbers to evade blocks in violation of its terms.
b. PSI's January 2003 Market Timing Policy
40. After protracted discussion involving PSI senior officers during the Fall of 2002, PSI issued a market timing policy on January 8, 2003 (the "Market Timing Policy"). PSI
 
considered, and rejected, defining market timing in the Market Timing Policy as a certain number of trades because of concerns that doing so would have too great an impact on the Representatives' revenues. PSI also rejected an absolute prohibition on the business of market timing. Instead, the Market Timing Policy provided that "inappropriate timing activities [would] continue to be monitored" by mutual fund companies and not by PSI itself.
41. Unlike other PSI policies concerning market timing, the Market Timing Policy expressly provided for the imposition of sanctions, including termination of employment, for the Representatives' use of "manipulative techniques" to evade mutual fund trading restrictions. Any imposition of sanctions was to be decided by a committee consisting of members of PSI's Legal, Compliance, and Risk Management divisions. Despite notifications of continuing deceptive practices received by PSI after it issued the Market Timing Policy, PSI did not form this committee and failed to take action against any of the Representatives to stop their use of "manipulative techniques" to market time.
42. The Market Timing Policy also provided that, in the event a mutual fund company asked PSI to block any one of a registered representative's FA numbers, numbers belonging to the registered representative similarly would be blocked from trading. However, PSI senior officers determined not to implement this critical aspect of the Market Timing Policy. In fact, despite the policy's clear language, PSI interpreted mutual fund block requests after it issued the Market Timing Policy in the same manner as it had previously  as narrowly as possible, blocking only the specific FA number or customer account number identified by mutual fund block requests. Thus, even after issuance of the Market Timing Policy, the Representatives were able to continue their fraudulent scheme of switching to unblocked FA numbers or customer accounts to evade blocks imposed by mutual fund companies.
all
 
G. PSI Profited From the Representatives' Deceptive Acts
43. PSI identified the Representatives as early as 2000 and monitored their revenues and ranks within the firm throughout the Relevant Period. The firm's Mutual Fund Operations Division, which processed the Representatives' trades in mutual funds, monitored the Representatives' activity because their rapid trading required the dedication of additional staff within the department to process the trades and strained the firm's trade processing and settlement systems.
44. In 2000, PSI began to track each quarter the gross commission revenues generated by the Representatives. PSI prepared these reports to determine the amount of income that would possibly be reduced if the firm determined to eliminate market timing as a business. In 2001, for example, the Representatives generated more than $16 million in gross commission revenues for the firm, most of which would have been eliminated had the firm phased out market timing at that time. Similarly, the Representatives generated approximately $23 million in gross commission revenues for 2002, and received another $10 million in gross commission revenues during the first half of 2003.
45. As PSI senior officers became increasingly aware of the Representatives' use of deceptions, the firm elected to continue the business of market timing. Indeed, some of the firm's senior officers were aware that the June 2002 Procedure concerning the issuance of multiple FA numbers and the January 2003 Market Timing Policy were wholly ineffective at eradicating the Representatives' deceptions and the Representatives and their hedge fund customers continued this activity. During the Relevant Period, the Representatives generated approximately $50 million in gross revenues as a result of this conduct.
 
H. Violations of the Martin Act, GBL  349 and Executive Law  63 (12)
46. By virtue of the acts and practices set forth hereinabove, PSI violated the Martin Act, GBL  349, and Executive Law  63 (12).
IT NOW APPEARING THAT PEG desires to settle and resolve the Investigation without admitting or denying the Attorney General's Findings, the Attorney General and PEG hereby enter into this Assurance of Discontinuance ("Assurance"), pursuant to Executive Law  63 (15), and agree as follows:
I. Affirmative Relief
A. Disgorgement and/or Restitution
1. PEG shall pay $270 million in disgorgement and/or restitution. The $270 million payment shall be remitted and administered in accordance with the SEC's Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in , issued on or near the date hereof (the "SEC Order").
In the Matter of Prudential Equity Group, LLC, Formerly Known As Prudential Securities Incorporated
2. The provisions in the SEC Order relating to the payment, administration and distribution of the $270 million referred to in this section are incorporated herein by reference, and such terms are agreed to as part of this Assurance by PEG.
3. PEG agrees that it shall not seek or accept, directly or indirectly, reimbursement or indemnification, including, but not limited to, payment made pursuant to any insurance policy, with regard to any or all of the amount payable pursuant to this Assurance, provided that nothing in this Assurance shall: (a) prevent PEG from bringing claims (including
 
claims for indemnity and/or contribution) against persons or entities for injuries sustained by, or for amounts paid in disgorgement by, PEG as a result of such persons' or entities' engagement or involvement in, agreement to permit or failure to prevent market timing; or (b) limit or impair the rights of persons other than PEG under any applicable insurance policy.
B. Incorporation of Undertakings in the SEC Order
As part of this Assurance, PEG agrees to the terms of and shall comply with the provisions of Section K, "Undertakings," of the SEC Order, which section is incorporated herein by reference.
C. General Relief
1. PEG admits the jurisdiction of the Attorney General. PEG will cease and desist from engaging in any acts in violation of the Martin Act, GBL  349 and/or Executive Law  63(12) and will comply with the Martin Act, GBL  349 and Executive Law  63(12).
2. Evidence of a violation of this Assurance by PEG shall constitute prima facie proof of violation of the Martin Act, GBL  349 and Executive Law  63(12) in any civil action or proceeding hereafter commenced by the Attorney General against PEG.
II. Other Provisions
A. Scope Of This Assurance
1. This Assurance concludes the Investigation brought by the Attorney General and any action the Attorney General could commence against PEG arising from or relating to the subject matter of the Investigation; provided however, that nothing contained in this Assurance shall be construed to cover claims of any type by any other state agency or any claims that may be brought by the Attorney General to enforce PEG's obligations arising from or relating to the provisions contained in this Assurance.
 
2. If PEG does not make the payment as provided in Section I.A. of this Assurance (, pursuant to the SEC Order), or PEG defaults on any obligation under this Assurance, the Attorney General may terminate this Assurance, at his sole discretion, upon 10 days' written notice to PEG and PEG agrees that any statute of limitations or other time related defenses applicable to the subject of the Investigation and any claims arising from or relating thereto are tolled from and after the date of execution of this Assurance. In the event of such termination, PEG expressly agrees and acknowledges that this Assurance shall in no way bar or otherwise preclude the Attorney General from commencing, conducting or prosecuting any investigation, action or proceeding, however denominated, related to the Investigation, against PEG or from using in any way any statements, documents or other materials produced or provided by PEG after commencement of the Investigation, including, without limitation, any statements, documents or other materials provided for purposes of settlement negotiations.
i.e.
3. Nothing herein shall preclude New York State, its departments, agencies, boards, commissions, authorities, political subdivisions and corporations, other than the New York State Attorney General and only to the extent set forth in paragraph II.A.2 above (collectively, "State Entities") and the officers, agents or employees of State Entities, from asserting any claims, causes of action, or applications for compensatory, nominal and/or punitive damages, administrative, civil or criminal or injunctive relief against PEG arising from or relating to the subject of the Investigation.
4. Except as provided in Section I.C.2., above, or in an action by the Attorney General to enforce the obligations of PEG in this Assurance, neither this Assurance nor any acts performed or documents executed in furtherance of this Assurance: (a) may be deemed or used as an admission of, or evidence of, the validity of any alleged wrongdoing, liability or lack of
 
wrongdoing or liability; or (b) may be deemed or used as an admission of or evidence of any such alleged fault or omission of PEG or any other Prudential Financial entity in any civil, criminal or administrative proceeding in any court, administrative agency or other tribunal. This Assurance shall not confer any rights upon persons or entities who are not a party to this Assurance. This Assurance also does not limit or prohibit any defenses of PEG or its current or former affiliates to claims asserted by a person or entity not a party hereto. Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit the use of any e-mails or other documents of PEG or of others.
5. This Assurance is not intended by the Attorney General to subject PEG or any of its affiliates to any disqualifications under the laws of any state, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico or territory (collectively, "State"), including, without limitation, any disqualifications from relying upon the State registration exemptions or State safe harbor provisions.
6. The SEC Order, this Assurance and any order of any other State in a proceeding based upon the acts, practices and procedures of PEG which are the subject of this Investigation (collectively, the "Settlement Documents") shall not disqualify PEG or its affiliates from any business that they otherwise are qualified, licensed or permitted to perform under the applicable laws of the State of New York and any disqualifications from relying upon this state's registration exemptions or safe harbor provisions that arise from the Settlement Documents are hereby waived.
B. Cooperation
1. PEG and its current affiliates have cooperated to date in the Investigation. If requested to do so by PEG, the Attorney General agrees to bring the cooperation of PEG and its current affiliates to the attention of any other governmental agencies or jurisdictions, provided that PEG, its current affiliates, and its successors, assigns and/or purchasers of all or substantially all the assets of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "Prudential Entities") continue to cooperate to the satisfaction of the Attorney General.
 
2. The Prudential Entities shall cooperate fully and promptly with the Attorney General with regard to any investigation, litigation or other proceeding initiated by the Attorney General or to which the Attorney General is a party, whether pending or subsequently initiated, relating to market timing or late trading. The Prudential Entities shall use their best efforts to ensure that all the current and former officers, directors, trustees, agents and employees of the Prudential Entities also fully and promptly cooperate with the Attorney General.
3. Such cooperation shall include, without limitation:
(a) production, voluntarily and without service of subpoena, of all documents or other tangible evidence requested by the Attorney General and any compilations or summaries of information or data that the Attorney General requests be prepared, with the exception of any information or documents with respect to which the Prudential Entities have a statutory or currently existing written contractual obligation of confidentiality to persons or entities who are not parties to this Assurance ("Confidential Information") and information or documents protected by the attorney-client and/or work product privileges to the extent to which such information or documents are not subject to the privilege waiver provided for in subsection B.3. (e), below ("Privileged Information");
(b) without the necessity of a subpoena, having the current officers, directors, and employees of the Prudential Entities attend any Proceedings (as hereinafter defined) in New York State or elsewhere at which the presence of any such persons is requested by the Attorney General and having such current officers, directors, and employees answer any and all inquiries that may be put by the Attorney General to any of them at any Proceedings or otherwise
 
("Proceedings" include, but are not limited to, any meetings, interviews, depositions, hearings, trials, grand jury proceedings or other proceedings), except to the extent to which such inquiries call for the disclosure of Confidential Information or Privileged Information;
(c) the Prudential Entities using their best efforts to cause former officers, directors, trustees, agents and employees of the Prudential Entities and the then-current trustees and agents of the Prudential Entities to attend any Proceedings in New York State or elsewhere at which the presence of any such persons is requested by the Attorney General and to answer any and all inquiries that may be put by the Attorney General to any of them at any Proceedings or otherwise, except to the extent to which such inquiries call for the disclosure of Confidential Information or Privileged Information;
(d) fully, fairly and truthfully disclosing all information and producing all records and other evidence in the possession, custody or control of the Prudential Entities relevant to all inquiries made by the Attorney General, except to the extent to which such inquiries call for the disclosure of Confidential Information or Privileged Information;
(e) waiving, upon request by the Attorney General, all privileges relating to any internal investigations concerning matters in the Investigation including, without limitation, production of all interview notes taken in connection with any internal investigations; and
(f) making the Prudential Entities' outside counsel reasonably available to provide comprehensive presentations concerning any internal investigation relating to all matters in this Assurance and to answer questions, except to the extent to which such presentations or questions call for the disclosure of Confidential Information or Privileged Information.
 
4. All communications relating to cooperation pursuant to this Assurance may be made to the Prudential Entities' attorneys as follows: Bingham & McCutchen LLP, Attention: Neal E. Sullivan, Esq., 2020 K Street, NW, Washington, DC 20006.
5. In the event that any of the Prudential Entities fails to comply with any provision of this Section II.B. of this Assurance, the Attorney General shall be entitled, in addition to any other remedies in this Assurance or otherwise, to specific performance.
C. Miscellaneous Provisions
1. This Assurance and any dispute related thereto shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York without regard to any conflicts of laws principles.
2. No failure or delay by the Attorney General in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies provided herein shall be cumulative.
3. PEG consents to the jurisdiction of the Attorney General in any proceeding or action to enforce this Assurance.
4. PEG enters into this Assurance voluntarily and represents that no threats, offers, promises, or inducements of any kind have been made by the Attorney General or any member, officer, employee, agent or representative of the Attorney General to induce PEG to enter into this Assurance.
5. This Assurance may be changed, amended or modified only by a writing signed by all parties hereto.
 
6. This Assurance constitutes the entire agreement between the Attorney General and PEG and supersedes any prior communication, understanding or agreement, whether written or oral, concerning the subject matter of this Assurance.
7. If any provision of this Assurance is found to be unenforceable, such finding shall not affect the enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof.
8. This Assurance shall be binding upon PEG and its successors and assigns.
9. This Assurance shall be effective and binding only when this Assurance is signed by all parties. This Assurance may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one instrument.
 
WHEREFORE, the following signatures are affixed hereto on the dates set forth below.
 
 
 
On this 24
th
day of August, 2006, before me personally came Kenneth Y. Tanji, known to me, who, being duly sworn by me, did depose and say that he is Senior Vice President of Prudential Equity Group, LLC, the entity described in the foregoing Assurance of Discontinuance, is duly authorized by Prudential Equity Group, LLC, to execute the same, and that he signed his name in my presence by like authorization.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU) today confirmed that Prudential Equity Group, LLC has reached a settlement with the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts, the Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, the New York Stock Exchange, the New Jersey Bureau of Securities and the New York Attorney General's Office in connection with their investigations into market timing related activities involving the former retail broker-dealer business at Prudential Securities, Inc. In 2003, Prudential Securities contributed that business to a joint venture with Wachovia Corporation. However, Prudential Equity Group, LLC retained liability for the market timing related activities at issue in the investigations.
NEWARK, N.J. 
Under the terms of the settlement, Prudential Equity Group, LLC has agreed to pay $270 million into a Fair Fund administered by the SEC to compensate those harmed by the market timing related activities. In addition, $330 million will be paid as fines and penalties. The settlement resolves these investigations as to all Prudential companies without further proceedings, as long as the terms of the settlement are followed. Prudential Equity Group, LLC has previously reserved sufficient funds to cover these payments.
Prudential Chairman and CEO Arthur F. Ryan said: "We take these matters very seriously and deeply regret the conduct of some former employees that led to these problems. Let me assure you that as part of our ongoing review of business practices, we have strengthened our compliance programs. Prudential cooperated with the authorities throughout the process. This settlement represents our desire to do the right thing and to put this matter behind us, which we believe is in the best interests of our customers, shareholders and employees."
Page 2
Prudential Financial companies, with approximately $568 billion in total assets under management as of June 30, 2006, serve individual and institutional customers worldwide and include The Prudential Insurance Company of America, one of the largest life insurance companies in the United States. These companies offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, mutual funds, annuities, pension and retirement-related services and administration, asset management, banking and trust services, real estate brokerage franchises, relocation services and, through a joint venture, retail securities brokerage services. For more information, visit .
www.prudential.com


