FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20060613164446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On June 13, 2006, the Board of Directors of Prudential Financial, Inc. (the "Company") elected Ms. Christine Poon as a director, effective September 1, 2006. Attached as Exhibit 99.0 is a Company new release, dated June 13, 2006, announcing Ms. Poon's election.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 13, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU) announced today that Christine Poon has been elected to the company's board of directors, effective September 1, 2006.
NEWARK, N.J. 
Poon is Vice Chair and Worldwide Chair, Medicines and Nutritionals, at Johnson & Johnson. She is also a member of Johnson & Johnson's Board of Directors.
Poon joined Johnson & Johnson in 2000 as a Company Group Chair in the Pharmaceuticals Group. She became a member of Johnson & Johnson's Executive Committee and Worldwide Chair, Pharmaceuticals Group, in 2001, and was named to her current position as Worldwide Chair, Medicines and Nutritionals in 2003. Poon was appointed Vice Chair and a member of Johnson & Johnson's Board of Directors in 2005. Prior to joining Johnson & Johnson, she served in various management positions at Bristol-Myers Squibb for 15 years, most recently as President of International Medicines (1998 to 2000) and President of Medical Devices (1997 to 1998).
"We are delighted to have Ms. Poon as a member of our board," said Arthur F. Ryan, chairman and chief executive officer of Prudential Financial, Inc. "Her diverse global business knowledge and experience make her an extremely valuable addition to our board."
Poon has a bachelor's degree in biology from Northwestern University, a master of science degree in biology/biochemistry from St. Louis University, and a master's degree in Business Administration from Boston University. She is also a member of the board of the Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia.
Page 2
Prudential Financial companies, with approximately $547 billion in total assets under management as of March 31, 2006, serve individual and institutional customers worldwide and include The Prudential Insurance Company of America, one of the largest life insurance companies in the United States. These companies offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, mutual funds, annuities, pension and retirement-related services and administration, asset management, banking and trust services, real estate brokerage franchises, relocation services and, through a joint venture, retail securities brokerage services. For more information, visit .
www.prudential.com
 


