FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20060601131246.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and incorporated herein by reference, is a news release, dated June 1, 2006, of Prudential Financial, Inc. (the "Company") announcing the closing of the Company's acquisition of Allstate Financial's variable annuity business through a reinsurance transaction.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 1, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU) today announced the closing of its acquisition of Allstate Financial's variable annuity business through a reinsurance transaction. This makes Prudential the third largest provider of advisor-sold* variable annuity products as measured by assets under administration and management and the fourth largest as measured by sales (Source: VARDS as of 12/31/05).
NEWARK, N.J.
Prudential's initial investment in the business, reflecting total consideration to Allstate, related taxes, and capital requirements, is approximately $591 million. This amount reflects a price adjustment paid to Allstate for market movements between signing and closing. Over the course of a transition period of up to 24 months from closing, Prudential will assume the administration of Allstate Financial's in-force variable annuities, with account values of approximately $17 billion (value as of March 31, 2006).
"The acquisition of Allstate Financial's variable annuity business greatly increases our scale and distribution opportunities," said David Odenath, president of Prudential Annuities. "Our priorities in 2006 will be to integrate the business, launch our variable annuity products in Allstate's proprietary channel, and build relationships within Allstate's non-proprietary channel."
As part of the transaction, Prudential is granted exclusive distribution rights to sell variable annuity products through Allstate's proprietary distribution force of approximately 13,700 independent contractors and financial professionals. The transaction also enables Prudential to build and enhance its relationships with Allstate's non-proprietary Broker Dealer Division channel including a number of major, national wirehouses and regional securities firms. With respect to Allstate's Bank channel, Allstate Financial will continue to market variable annuity products through its extensive set of bank distribution relationships by transitioning to an Allstate-branded, Prudential-designed variable annuity.
Prudential Financial companies, with approximately $547 billion in total assets under management as of March 31, 2006, serve individual and institutional customers worldwide and include The Prudential Insurance Company of America, one of the largest life insurance companies in the United States. These companies offer a
variety of products and services, including life insurance, mutual funds, annuities, pension and retirement-related services and administration, asset management, banking and trust services, real estate brokerage franchises, relocation services and, through a joint venture, retail securities brokerage services. For more information, visit .
www.prudential.com
Annuities are issued by The Prudential Insurance Company of America, Newark, NJ or its affiliates. Securities products and services offered through Pruco Securities, LLC, 751 Broad Street, Newark, NJ 07102-3777. All are Prudential Financial companies. Each is solely responsible for its own financial condition and contractual obligations.
Investors should consider the contract and underlying portfolios' investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses carefully before investing. This and other important information are contained in the prospectuses, which can be obtained from your financial professional. You should read the prospectuses carefully before investing
IFS-A119501 Ed 06/2006


