FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20071128161818.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 28, 2007, Prudential Financial, Inc. (the "Company") announced that Arthur F. Ryan intends to retire as Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company effective January 1, 2008, and as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company immediately following the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders in May 2008.
On November 28, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Vice Chairman, John R. Strangfeld, to succeed Arthur F. Ryan as Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company, effective January 1, 2008. The Board also elected Mr. Strangfeld to the Board of Directors of the Company effective January 1, 2008 and as Chairman of the Board effective in May 2008 upon Mr. Ryan's retirement from the Board.
Mr. Strangfeld, age 53, was elected a Vice Chairman of the Company in August 2002. Since February 2007, he has had primary responsibility for the Company's U.S. businesses. He was Executive Vice President of the Company from February 2001 to August 2002. He served as Chief Executive Officer, Prudential Investment Management of Prudential Insurance from October 1998 until April 2002. Mr. Strangfeld was also elected Chairman of the Board and CEO of Prudential Securities (renamed Prudential Equity Group, LLC) in December 2000 and continues to serve as its Chairman. He is a member of the Board of Managers of Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC, a joint venture formed in July 2003 as part of the combination of the retail brokerage and securities clearing businesses of Prudential and Wachovia. He has been with Prudential since July 1977, serving in various management positions, including Senior Managing Director, The Private Asset Management Group from 1995 to 1998; and Chairman, PRICOA Capital Group (London) Europe from 1989 to 1995.
On November 28, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company also elected Vice Chairman, Mark B. Grier, to the Board of Directors effective January 1, 2008.
Mr.Grier, age 55, was elected a Vice Chairman of Prudential Financial in August 2002. Since April 2007, he has had primary responsibility for the Company's international businesses. Since May 1995 he has served the Company and Prudential Insurance in various management positions, including Executive Vice President, Corporate Governance; Executive Vice President, Financial Management; and Vice Chairman, Financial Management. He also is a member of the Board of Managers of Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC. Prior to joining Prudential, Mr. Grier was an executive with Chase Manhattan Corporation.
Messrs. Ryan, Strangfeld and Grier participate in the executive officer compensation plans and arrangements described in the Company's 2007 proxy statement. As of the date of this report, the Company has not entered into any other material plan, contract or arrangement or any material amendment to any existing plan, contract or arrangement, or made any material award or grant under any plan, contract or arrangement, with Mr. Ryan, Mr. Strangfeld or Mr. Grier in connection with the events disclosed above.
A copy of the Company's news release, dated November 28, 2007, announcing Mr. Ryan's retirement and the appointments of Messrs. Strangfeld and Grier disclosed above is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 28, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Newark, NJ  The Board of Directors of Prudential Financial, Inc., (NYSE:PRU) today announced that it has elected Vice Chairman John R. Strangfeld as the company's new Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and member of the Board of Directors effective January 1, 2008. Strangfeld, who currently runs all of Prudential's U.S. businesses, will succeed Chairman and CEO Arthur F. Ryan, who will retire as CEO at the end of 2007. Strangfeld will become Chairman after Ryan retires from that position in May 2008.
The Board also announced that it has elected Vice Chairman Mark Grier, who is currently responsible for all of Prudential's International businesses, to the Board of Directors effective January 1, 2008.
"The Board's decision to name John as the company's new CEO and Chairman-elect represents the culmination of a thoughtful succession process that began nearly two years ago. He is an outstanding leader who has the qualities and skills necessary to ensure Prudential's growth and success," Ryan said.
"At the same time, I'm pleased that the Board has elected Mark to the Board of Directors. Together, John and Mark will comprise the Office of the Chairman and will work closely to shape and drive Prudential's strategic agenda. We are fortunate to have these two very gifted leaders. They each have extensive experience and a strong track record of performance," Ryan added.
"I also want to compliment the Board for its diligence and dedication. I know they have made a selection that will enable our transition to be orderly, ensure continuity, and benefit Prudential for many years to come," Ryan said.
Page 2
Strangfeld, 53, began his career at Prudential 30 years ago. Under his strategic leadership, the company has transformed its Investment Management business into a high performing unit with more than $430 billion of assets under management, moved out of the brokerage business and into a successful joint venture with Wachovia, and expanded Prudential's footprint as a company that helps people prepare for a comfortable retirement.
Strangfeld received a B.S. in Business Administration from Susquehanna University and an M.B.A. from the Darden School of Business at the University of Virginia. He is Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Susquehanna University and is President of the Board of Trustees of The Darden Foundation, University of Virginia.
Grier, 55, joined Prudential as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in May 1995. In 2002, he was named Vice Chairman, with responsibility for Financial Management, a department consisting of Investor Relations, Finance, Corporate Actuarial, Asset Liability and Risk Management, and External Affairs. He later assumed responsibility for all of the company's International Businesses.
Before joining Prudential, Grier was co-head of Chase Global Markets and an Executive Vice President of The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. He attended Eastern Illinois University where he received a B.A. and an M.A. in economics. Grier also earned an M.B.A. in finance and corporate accounting from The University of Rochester.
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $637 billion of assets under management as of September 30, 2007, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Leveraging its heritage of life insurance and asset management expertise, Prudential is focused on helping individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth. The company's well-known Rock symbol is an icon of strength, stability, expertise and innovation that has stood the test of time. Prudential's businesses offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. For more information, please visit .
www.prudential.com


