FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20070309165033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 5, 2007, Rodger A. Lawson, Vice Chairman responsible for the International Insurance and Investments Division, notified Prudential Financial, Inc. (the "Company") of his resignation, effective on or before May 1, 2007, which the Company subsequently accepted. The Company plans to announce a successor in the near future. Mr. Lawson will assist with the orderly transition of his responsibilities.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
The Company's news release, dated March 9, 2007, announcing Mr. Lawson's resignation is being furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) .
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 9, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Rodger A. Lawson, vice chairman of the International Division and head of Global Marketing Communications, today announced he will leave Prudential by May 1.
NEWARK, N.J. 
Lawson joined Prudential on June 10, 1996. He was named head of the International Division, which includes International Insurance and International Investments, in 2002. Lawson said he decided to leave the company to explore new opportunities and will use the remainder of his time with the company to help with the orderly transition of his duties.
"I want to thank Rodger for his contributions over the last 10 years. He was chiefly responsible for significantly improving earnings in our international businesses and for strengthening our brand," said Arthur F. Ryan, Prudential's Chairman and CEO.
Ryan added that he plans to announce a successor to Lawson shortly.
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $616 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2006, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Leveraging its heritage of life insurance and asset management expertise, Prudential is focused on helping individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth. The company's well-known Rock symbol is an icon of strength, stability, expertise and innovation that has stood the test of time. Prudential's businesses offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, asset management, and real estate services. For more information, please visit www.prudential.com.


