FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20070213161834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
See the news release, dated February 13, 2007, of Prudential Financial, Inc. (the "Company") furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Executive Changes
On February 13, 2007, Vivian L. Banta, Vice Chairman responsible for the Insurance Division, announced her intention to retire by the end of April 2007. On February 13, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved a one-time payment of $500,000 to Ms. Banta in recognition of her continued service to the Company beyond her previously expressed preferred retirement date.
John R. Strangfeld, Jr., Vice Chairman responsible for the Investment Division, will assume additional responsibility for the Insurance Division and for developing an integrated U.S. business strategy. Mr. Strangfeld will retain the title of Vice Chairman and will continue to report to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Arthur F. Ryan, and to be part of the Office of the Chairman along with Mark B. Grier and Rodger A. Lawson.
Stock Options
Prudential Financial, Inc. (the "Company") is filing as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K the form of Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to stock option grants to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers in 2007 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan.
Performance Shares
The Company is filing as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 8-K the form of Grant Acceptance Agreement relating to performance share awards to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers in 2007 in respect of the performance period 2007 through 2009 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan.
Rabbi Trust
On February 13, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company authorized the appropriate officers of the Company to establish an irrevocable trust, commonly referred to as a "rabbi trust," for the purpose of holding assets of the Company to be used to satisfy its obligations with respect to the following non-qualified retirement plans under which the principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers of the Company are or may become participants:
 
 
 
Assets held in a rabbi trust are available to the general creditors of the Company in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy. The Company may from time to time in its discretion make contributions to the trust to fund accrued benefits payable to participants in one or more of the plans, and, in the case of a change in control of the Company (to be defined in the trust agreement), the Company will be required to make contributions to the plans to fund the accrued benefits (vested and unvested) payable on a pretax basis to participants in the plans. The trust arrangement will not increase or otherwise affect the amounts otherwise payable to plan participants under the terms of the plans.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The Company's news release, dated February 13, 2007, announcing Ms. Banta's retirement and Mr. Strangfeld's appointment is being furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) .
Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 13, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Executive Stock Option Program
Grant Acceptance Agreement
(for executives subject to the reporting requirements under Section 16(a) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)
You have been granted options (the "Options") to purchase shares of Prudential Financial, Inc. common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"), on (the "Grant Date"). The Options shall not be treated as "incentive stock options," as defined in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
XXX
XXX
February 13, 2007
Subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth herein and in the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the Options may be exercised on or after the dates indicated below as to that number of Options set forth below, and each Option represents a right to purchase only one share of Common Stock.
Vesting Dates:
Options on
Xx
February 13, 2008
Options on
Xx
February 13, 2009
Options on
Xx
February 13, 2010
per share of Common Stock (the "Grant Price").
Grant Price: $XX.XX
The Options shall expire on (the "Expiration Date").
Expiration Date:
February 13, 2017
See the brochure entitled 2007 Long-Term Incentive Program (the "Brochure") for more information about this grant. This (this "Agreement") and the Brochure are subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions contained in the Plan (capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings given such terms in the Plan). Except as specified otherwise, this Agreement and the Brochure are not a substitute for the official Plan document, which governs the operation of the Plan. Also, this is not a stock certificate or negotiable instrument.
Grant Acceptance Agreement
Your eligibility for the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Program (the "Program"), the benefits provided by the Program, and all other terms and conditions of the Program and any long-term grant of stock options will be determined pursuant to, and are governed by, the provisions of the Plan document and this Agreement, including any decisions of the committee designated under the Plan by the Prudential Financial, Inc. ("Prudential") Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee" or the "Committee"). Except as specifically stated otherwise in this Agreement, if there is any discrepancy between the information in this Agreement or in the Brochure and the Plan document, or if there is a conflict between information discussed by anyone acting on behalf of Prudential and the actual Plan document, the Plan document, as interpreted by the Committee (or its delegate), in its sole discretion, will always govern.
 lets you exercise the Options and receive Common Stock, after paying in cash the Grant Price, applicable taxes and fees.
Cash Exercise
 lets you exercise the Options, direct the immediate sale of the portion of Common Stock purchased necessary to pay the Grant Price, applicable taxes and fees, without paying cash out of your pocket, and receive the remaining shares of Common Stock.
Sell to Cover
One or more of these Exercise Methods outlined above may not be available to you should Prudential determine that its availability will or could violate the terms of any relevant law or regulation. You may not exercise the Options at a time when the market price of the Common Stock does not exceed the Grant Price.
 
Prudential or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company Group"), as applicable, shall have the right to deduct and report taxes (federal, state, local or foreign taxes, including social insurance taxes) or other obligations required to be withheld by law on Options from any Common Stock or cash payments or distributions made to you. Prudential (or, if appropriate, any other member of the Company Group) also shall have the right to require you to remit to Prudential (or, if appropriate, any other member of the Company Group) an amount necessary to satisfy any such taxes or other obligations. Prudential may defer issuance of Common Stock upon the exercise of any Options until such withholding is satisfied.
 
Once the Options vest, you will have until the Expiration Date to exercise the Options, unless your employment ends prior to the Expiration Date. See the Brochure for a brief summary of the Plan terms regarding the effect a termination of employment will have on the Options.
 
Prudential makes no representation as to the value of the Options or whether you will be able to realize any profit based on any award of Options to you.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Options and the obligation of Prudential to sell and deliver shares of Common Stock hereunder shall be subject in all respects to (a) all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, and (b) any registration, qualification, approvals or other requirements imposed by any government or regulatory agency or body which the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or applicable. Moreover, the Options may not be exercised if their exercise, or the receipt of shares of Common Stock pursuant thereto, would be contrary to applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange.
 
If at the time of exercise of all or part of the Options, the Common Stock is not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or there is no current prospectus in effect under the Securities Act with respect to the Common Stock, you shall, if requested by the Committee, execute, prior to the delivery of any shares of Common Stock to you by Prudential, an agreement (in such form as the Committee may specify) in which you represent and warrant that you are purchasing or acquiring the shares acquired under this Agreement for your own account, for investment only and not with a view to the resale or distribution thereof, and represent and agree that any subsequent offer for sale or distribution of any kind of such shares shall be made only pursuant to either (a) a registration statement on an appropriate form under the Securities Act, which registration statement has become effective and is current with regard to the shares being offered or sold, or (b) a specific exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, but in claiming such exemption you shall, prior to any offer for sale of such shares, obtain a prior favorable written opinion, in form and substance satisfactory to the Committee, from counsel for or approved by the Committee, as to the applicability of such exemption thereto.
 
You agree to retain ownership of 50% of the net shares (after payment of the applicable exercise price, if any, applicable fees and applicable taxes) of Common Stock acquired upon exercise of any of your Options. You also agree to hold all Common Stock retained pursuant to the preceding sentence until the later of (i) one year following the date of acquisition of such Common Stock, or (ii) the date that you have satisfied the Share Ownership Guidelines set forth in a letter from Arthur Ryan dated April 4, 2002 (the "Guidelines"). Once you have satisfied the holding period set forth in the preceding sentence, you may dispose of any Common Stock held in excess of the Guidelines, subject only to the Personal Securities Trading Policy,
 
including the "Reporting Responsibilities and Procedures for Section 16 Officers and Directors and Control Persons of Prudential." This agreement to retain Common Stock is applicable to this grant and for as long as you are an insider for the purpose of Section 16(a) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
The validity, construction and effect of this Agreement and the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of New Jersey without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
 
The award of the Options does not entitle you to any benefit other than that granted under the Plan. Any benefits granted under the Plan are not deemed compensation under any Prudential pension plan, welfare plan or any compensation plan or program and shall not be considered as part of such compensation for purposes of calculating pension, bonuses, service awards, or in the event of severance, redundancy or resignation.
Prudential and its affiliates will not be responsible if you do not exercise the Options.
You understand and accept that the benefits granted under the Plan are entirely at the sole discretion of Prudential, and that Prudential may modify, amend, suspend or terminate this Agreement, the Plan or any and all of the policies, programs and plans described in this Agreement in whole or in part, at any time, without notice to you or your consent. Further, this grant of Options does not give you the right to be granted any further options or other forms of compensation or benefits at any time in the future.
You understand that you do not have any rights as a stockholder by virtue of the grant of the Options but only with respect to shares of Common Stock, if any, actually issued to you in accordance with the terms hereof.
You understand and accept that if the Options are exercised at a time or in a manner not specifically authorized by the Plan, this Agreement, or Plan administrative rules (i.e., in "Error"), Prudential will be entitled to correct the Error, including reversing the transaction and recouping any Common Stock or gain that you might receive following the exercise.
Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Brochure is intended to constitute or create a contract of employment nor shall it constitute or create the right to remain associated with or in the employ of any member of the Company Group for any particular period of time. Employment with any member of the Company Group is employment at will, which means that either you or any member of the Company Group may terminate the employment relationship at any time, with or without cause or notice.
 
I accept the terms of this Agreement, and acknowledge that I understand this Agreement and the terms of the Plan. I have received a copy of the Brochure as currently in effect.
 

Exhibit 10.2
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Performance Shares
Grant Acceptance Agreement
(for executives subject to the reporting requirements under Section 16(a) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)
(the "Grant Date")
February 13, 2007
You have been granted a of performance shares (the "Performance Shares") on the Grant Date. The actual number of Performance Shares you may receive will be determined pursuant to this Grant Acceptance Agreement (this "Agreement") and the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "Plan") (capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings given such terms in the Plan). Each Performance Share represents a right to receive one share of Prudential Financial, Inc. common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"), in accordance with the terms and subject to the conditions and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan.
target number
XXX
 
Following approval by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Prudential Financial, Inc. ("Prudential"), any shares of Common Stock to which you are entitled in respect of the Performance Shares will be delivered to you on February XX, 20010 (the "Payment Date") or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or the Plan.
 
The Performance Cycle begins January 1, 2007 and expires on December 31, 2009 (the "Performance Cycle").
See the brochure entitled 2007 Long-Term Incentive ProgramPerformance Shares and Stock Options (the "Brochure") for more information about this grant. This Agreement and the Brochure are subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions contained in the Plan. Except as specified otherwise, this Agreement and the Brochure are not a substitute for the official Plan document, which governs the operation of the Plan. Also, this is not a stock certificate or negotiable instrument.
Your eligibility for the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Program (the "Program"), the benefits provided by the Program and all other terms and conditions of the Program and any long-term grant of Performance Shares will be determined pursuant to, and are governed by, the provisions of the Plan document and this Agreement, including any decisions of the Committee designated under the Plan by the Prudential's Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee" or the "Committee"). Except as specifically stated otherwise in this Agreement, if there is any discrepancy between the information in this Agreement or in the Brochure and the Plan document, or if there is a conflict between information discussed by anyone acting on behalf of Prudential and the actual Plan document, the Plan document, as interpreted by the Committee (or its delegate), in its sole discretion, will always govern.
Provided that you are actively employed with Prudential or any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company Group") as of the Payment Date, you will receive a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the target number of Performance Shares set forth above as adjusted based on achievement of the performance goals set forth below. One-half (1/2) of the target award is conditioned on achievement of average ROE goals over the Performance Cycle, and the other one-half (1/2) of the target award is conditioned on achievement of EPS growth goals over the Performance Cycle, in each case, as set forth below.
ROE achievement means the average ROE for 2007, 2008 and 2009. ROE achievement is evaluated as follows:
 
EPS achievement means growth in EPS calculated based on the compounded annual growth rate ("CAGR") for the period from January 1, 2007, through December 31, 2009, against Prudential's 2006 EPS (using the same definition). EPS achievement is evaluated as follows:
 
 
Subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth herein and in the Plan, the number of shares of Common Stock you may receive will equal the target number of Performance Shares set forth above multiplied by the average of the percentages opposite the actual "ROE Achievement" (in Table 1) and "EPS Growth" (in Table 2) attained for the Performance Cycle, provided that if the actual ROE Achievement or EPS Growth is between any two data points set forth in the applicable table, the corresponding percentage will bear a linear relationship with the actual achievement between such data points. Such resulting number of shares shall be rounded to the nearest whole number (the "Payout Amount").
In the event of a significant acquisition (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) involving Common Stock or a divestiture or other transaction involving Prudential or any other member of the Company Group during the Performance Cycle, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, assess the impact of any such event on the average ROE and EPS growth goals set forth above and adjust such goals and related payout scales as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may (i) under normal circumstances, adjust the Payout Amount, within the 0% to 150% of the target number of Performance Shares, to take into account critical performance factors and other events, as the Committee deems desirable, and (ii) in the event of circumstances deemed to be extraordinary by the Committee, make additional adjustments to the Payout Amount.
If you are one of the five most highly compensated executives of Prudential on the Payment Date, the shares of Common Stock delivered hereunder will be reduced, to the extent necessary (but not below zero), so that the Fair Market Value of such shares on the date of delivery plus any annual incentive compensation otherwise payable in respect of calendar year 2009 will not exceed six-tenths of one percent (0.6%) of Adjusted Operating Income for the year ending December 31, 2009.
ROE is defined as "Prudential's operating return on average equity (based on after-tax adjusted operating income)" as publicly disclosed in Prudential's Quarterly Financial Supplement ("QFS"). ROE for each year in the Performance Cycle is defined as the average of the quarterly ROE figures for such year published in the QFS.
EPS is defined as the "Earnings Per Share of Common Stock (diluted): Financial Services Businesses after-tax adjusted operating income" as publicly disclosed in the QFS, normalized for significant one-time charges or benefits that do not accurately reflect the operating performance of Prudential's businesses as and to the extent determined by the Compensation Committee.
 
The Compensation Committee determines, in its sole discretion, ROE, average ROE, EPS, CAGR and the Payout Amount.
 
You, as a Participant, shall not have any right to vote on any matter submitted to Prudential's stockholders until such time as Common Stock (if any) attributable to the Performance Shares has been issued to you. You shall be eligible to receive Dividend Equivalents on the lesser of the (a) Payout Amount or (b) the target number of Performance Shares set forth above, based on any regular cash dividends declared on Common Stock from the Grant Date until the Payment Date (or until the date of forfeiture if sooner). Any such Dividend Equivalents shall be (i) subject to the same restrictions and conditions as the Performance Shares and (ii) paid in cash on the Payment Date or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter. There will be no reinvestment option or earned interest credits on any Dividend Equivalent.
 
Prudential (or, if appropriate, any other member of the Company Group) shall have the right to deduct and report taxes (federal, state, local or foreign taxes, including social insurance taxes) or other obligations required to be withheld by law prior to distributions made to you. Prudential (or, if appropriate, any other member of the Company Group) also shall have the right to require you to remit to Prudential (or, if appropriate, any other member of the Company Group) an amount necessary to satisfy any such taxes or other obligations.
 
The validity, construction and effect of this Agreement and the plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of New Jersey without regard to principles of conflict of laws.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This award of Performance Shares and the obligation of Prudential to deliver shares of Common Stock hereunder shall be subject in all respects to (a) all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, and (b) any registration, qualification, approvals or other requirements imposed by any government or regulatory agency or body which the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or applicable. Moreover, shares of Common Stock shall not be delivered hereunder if such delivery would be contrary to applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange.
 
If at the time of any delivery of shares of Common Stock hereunder, the Common Stock is not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or there is no current prospectus in effect under the Securities Act with respect to the Common Stock, you shall, if requested by the Committee, execute, prior to the delivery of any shares of Common Stock to you by Prudential, an agreement (in such form as the Committee may specify) in which you represent and warrant that you are acquiring the shares acquired under this Agreement for your own account, for investment only and not with a view to the resale or distribution thereof, and represent and agree that any subsequent offer for sale or distribution of any kind of such shares shall be made only pursuant to either (a) a registration statement on an appropriate form under the Securities Act, which registration statement has become effective and is current with regard to the shares being offered or sold, or (b) a specific exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, but in claiming such exemption you shall, prior to any offer for sale of such shares, obtain a prior favorable written opinion, in form and substance satisfactory to the Committee, from counsel for or approved by the Committee, as to the applicability of such exemption thereto.
 
You agree to retain ownership of 50% of the net shares of Common Stock acquired upon vesting of your Performance Shares. You also agree to hold all Common Stock retained pursuant to the preceding sentence until the later of (i) one year following the date of acquisition of such Common Stock, or (ii) the date that you have satisfied the Share Ownership Guidelines set forth in a letter from Arthur Ryan dated April 4, 2002 (the "Guidelines"). Once you have satisfied the holding period set forth in the preceding sentence, you may dispose of any Common Stock held in excess of the Guidelines, subject only to the Personal Securities Trading Policy, including the "Reporting Responsibilities and Procedures for Section 16 Officers and Directors and Control Persons of Prudential." This agreement to retain Common Stock is applicable to this grant and for as long as you are an insider for purposes of Section 16 (a) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
This award of Performance Shares does not entitle you to any benefit other than the benefits granted under the Plan. Any benefits granted under the Plan are not deemed compensation under any Prudential pension plan, welfare plan or any compensation plan or program and shall not be considered as part of such compensation for purposes of calculating pension, bonuses, service awards, or in the event of severance, redundancy or resignation.
 
You understand and accept that the benefits granted under the Plan are entirely at the sole discretion of Prudential, and that Prudential may modify, amend suspend or terminate the Plan or any and all of the policies, programs and plans described in this Agreement in whole or in part, at any time, without notice to you or your consent. Further, this grant of Performance Shares does not give you the right to be granted any further Performance Shares or other forms of compensation or benefits at any time in the future.
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or this Agreement to the contrary, no acceleration of the time or schedule of any delivery of shares or other payment related to this award of Performance Shares shall be permitted to the extent necessary to comply with Code Section 409A. The Committee may amend, modify, adjust or supplement any provision of this Agreement without your consent if the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines that such amendment, modification, adjustment or supplementation is required or advisable for this award of Performance Shares or Prudential to comply with, or not violate, any applicable law, regulation or rule, including, without limitation, Code Section 409A.
You understand and accept that if you gain access to unrestricted Common Stock related to the Performance Shares, or you transfer Performance Shares or Common Stock at a time or in a manner not specifically authorized by the Plan, this Agreement, or Plan administrative rules (i.e., in "Error"), Prudential will be entitled to correct the Error, including reversing the transaction and recouping any Common Stock or gain that you might receive as a result of the Error.
Nothing contained in this Agreement or the Brochure is intended to constitute or create a contract of employment nor shall it constitute or create the right to remain associated with or in the employ of any member of the Company Group for any particular period of time. Employment with any member of the Company Group is employment at will, which means that either you or any member of the Company Group may terminate the employment relationship at any time, with or without cause or notice.
I accept the terms of this Agreement, and acknowledge that I understand this Agreement and the terms of the Plan. I have received a copy of the Brochure as currently in effect.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today announced that Vice Chairman Vivian Banta, responsible for the company's domestic Insurance Division, has decided to retire in April, and that Vice Chairman John R. Strangfeld was named to lead the Insurance Division.
Newark, NJ 
"Vivian Banta has made numerous contributions to the company during her seven years with Prudential," said Chairman and CEO Arthur F. Ryan. "Through her efforts, she has improved profitability and achieved meaningful cost reductions in the Insurance Division, which played a significant role in achieving the company's return on equity targets. During her tenure, pre-tax adjusted operating income* in the Insurance Division went from $545 million in 2002 to $1.359 billion in 2006, representing a compound annual growth rate of more than 25 percent. During the same period, return on equity (ROE)* for the businesses that make up the Insurance Division  Individual Life, Individual Annuities and Group Insurance  increased from approximately 11 percent to 18 percent, (4) percent to 18 percent, and 12 percent to 14 percent respectively.
Ryan also noted that Vivian, 56, was chiefly responsible for leading a number of acquisitions, including the American Skandia and Allstate variable annuity businesses. In addition, he said that she has been a champion of women's financial literacy and a driver of the company's efforts to empower women so they are better prepared to take charge of their own financial security.
Page  2
Strangfeld, 53, who joined Prudential in 1977, will also continue to lead the company's domestic Investment Division, a position he assumed in August 2002, and will retain his current title of vice chairman. In addition, he remains a member of the Office of the Chairman along with Vice Chairman Rodger Lawson, who leads the company's International Division, and Mark Grier, who is responsible for Financial Management.
Ryan added: "We are fortunate that John can step in to assume control of the Insurance Division. He is uniquely qualified to build on Vivian's past successes. I am confident that he can develop an integrated U.S. business strategy for our company based on our focus to help people grow and protect their wealth so they can achieve a secure retirement."
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $616 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2006, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Leveraging its heritage of life insurance and asset management expertise, Prudential is focused on helping individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth. The company's well-known Rock symbol is an icon of strength, stability, expertise and innovation that has stood the test of time. Prudential's businesses offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, asset management, and real estate services. For more information, please visit .
www.prudential.com
Page  3
Non-GAAP Measure
*Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses that excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net", as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities; change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; results of divested businesses and discontinued operations; and the related tax effects thereof. Adjusted operating income includes equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and the related tax effects thereof.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income as presented above is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
ROE, as presented above, is determined by dividing adjusted operating income after-tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for Individual Life) by average attributed equity.
Following is a reconciliation of pre-tax adjusted operating income for the Insurance Division, for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2002, to "Income from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in earnings of operating joint ventures, extraordinary gain on acquisition and cumulative effect of accounting change", which is the nearest GAAP measure.
Reconciliation between adjusted operating income and the comparable GAAP measure
(in millions)
 


