FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20071001160313.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On October 1, 2007, Prudential Retirement Insurance and Annuity Co. ("PRIAC"), a subsidiary of Prudential Financial, Inc. (the "Company"), filed an action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, in PRIAC's fiduciary capacity and on behalf of certain defined benefit and defined contribution plan clients of PRIAC, against an unaffiliated asset manager, State Street Global Advisors, Inc. ("SSgA") and SSgA's affiliate, State Street Bank and Trust Company ("State Street"). This action seeks, among other relief, restitution of certain losses attributable to certain investment funds sold by SSgA as to which PRIAC believes SSgA employed investment strategies and practices that were misrepresented by SSgA and failed to exercise the standard of care of a prudent investment manager. PRIAC also intends to vigorously pursue any other available remedies against SSgA and State Street in respect of this matter. Given the unusual circumstances surrounding the management of these SSgA funds and in order to protect the interests of the affected plans and their participants while PRIAC pursues these remedies, PRIAC is also implementing a process under which affected plan clients that authorize PRIAC to proceed on their behalf will receive payments from funds provided by PRIAC for the losses referred to above. The Company's consolidated financial statements, and the results of the Retirement segment included in the Company's Investment Division, for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 will include a pre-tax charge, within adjusted operating income and income from continuing operations before income taxes, of approximately $80 million, reflecting these payments to plan clients and certain related costs.
"Adjusted operating income" differs from, and should not be viewed as a substitute for, income from continuing operations before income taxes or net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but is the financial measure that the Company uses to analyze the operations of each segment in managing its Financial Services Businesses.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 1, 2007
 


