FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20080206161446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.0, a news release announcing fourth quarter 2007 results.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2007, on an amortized cost basis, $1.4 billion, or 3% of fixed maturity investments attributable to the Closed Block Business were supported by bond insurance. All of these investments had AAA credit ratings as of December 31, 2007, reflecting the credit quality of the monoline bond insurer. Management estimates, taking into account the structure and credit quality of the underlying investments and giving no effect to the support of these securities by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, that 81% of the $1.4 billion total (based upon amortized cost) would have investment grade credit ratings. Based on amortized cost, $1.1 billion of the $1.4 billion of securities supported by bond insurance were asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, $0.2 billion were other asset-backed securities, and $0.1 billion were municipal bonds. Management estimates that 78% of the asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, 85% of the other asset-backed securities, and all of the municipal bonds would have investment grade credit ratings giving no effect to the support of these securities by guarantees from monoline bond insurers. As of December 31, 2007, the bond insurance is provided by five insurance companies, with no company representing more than 35% of the overall amortized cost of the securities supported by bond insurance attributable to the Closed Block Business.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 6, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today reported net income for its Financial Services Businesses of $3.512 billion ($7.61 per Common share) for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to $3.144 billion ($6.50 per Common share) for 2006. After-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses was $3.372 billion ($7.31 per Common share) for 2007, compared to $2.927 billion ($6.06 per Common share) for 2006, a 21% increase per Common share. Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure as discussed below.
NEWARK, N.J. 
For the fourth quarter of 2007, net income for the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $792 million ($1.75 per Common share) compared to $893 million ($1.88 per Common share) for the fourth quarter of 2006. After-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses for the fourth quarter of 2007 amounted to $729 million ($1.61 per Common share) compared to $782 million ($1.65 per Common share) for the fourth quarter of 2006.
"Despite turbulent financial markets in the second half of 2007, our results for the year are solid. Underlying performance of our businesses remained strong, and each of our operating divisions registered a double-digit earnings increase. While we are not immune to unfavorable financial market conditions, which were reflected in results of some of our businesses for the current quarter, we believe that our strong balance sheet and diversified mix of domestic and international businesses position us well for sustainable long-term performance consistent with our goals," said Chief Executive Officer and Chairmanelect John Strangfeld.
Page 2
 
"Considering current financial market conditions, including equity market levels, interest rates, and credit spreads, we now believe that Prudential Financial will achieve Common Stock earnings per share for 2008 in the range of $7.50 to $7.80 based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses. This expectation assumes stable financial market conditions over the remainder of the year," Strangfeld said. The 2008 expectation is subject to change if this assumption is not realized and as discussed under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures" below.
Adjusted operating income is not calculated under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Information regarding adjusted operating income, a non-GAAP measure, is discussed later in this press release under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures," and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the most comparable GAAP measure is provided in the tables that accompany this release.
The company acquired the variable annuity business of The Allstate Corporation on June 1, 2006. Results of the Financial Services Businesses include the results of this business from the date of acquisition.
Financial Services Businesses
Prudential Financial's Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of its Financial Services Businesses, which consist of its Insurance, Investment, and International Insurance and Investments divisions and its Corporate and Other operations.
In the following business-level discussion, adjusted operating income refers to pre-tax results. Current quarter results for several segments reflect decreases in market value of certain externally managed investments in the European market, which are included in adjusted operating income. These decreases in market value had an aggregate negative impact of $83 million on pre-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses.
Page 3
 
The reported adjusted operating income of $354 million for the fourth quarter of 2007, compared to $349 million in the year-ago quarter. Our Individual Life segment reported adjusted operating income of $125 million for the current quarter, compared to $132 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results included higher net amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, reflecting less favorable separate account performance than that of the year-ago quarter. The greater net amortization in the current quarter more than offset more favorable mortality experience. Our Individual Annuities segment reported adjusted operating income of $167 million in the current quarter, an increase of $13 million from the year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting higher asset-based fees due to growth in variable annuity account values. Our Group Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $62 million in the current quarter, compared to $63 million in the year-ago quarter. Results for the year-ago quarter included expenses of $14 million related to a regulatory settlement. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income for the Group Insurance segment decreased $15 million from the year-ago quarter, primarily as a result of less favorable group life results and less favorable investment results. Investment results included decreases of $4 million in market value of certain externally managed investments in the current quarter, as noted above.
Insurance division
The reported adjusted operating income of $305 million for the fourth quarter of 2007, compared to $361 million in the year-ago quarter. The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $117 million for the current quarter, compared to $121 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter adjusted operating income reflected less favorable investment results, including decreases of $14 million in market value of certain externally managed investments as noted above, as well as a lower contribution from investment joint venture income than that of the year-ago quarter. The less favorable investment results more than offset the benefit from higher fees, due to growth of Full Service Retirement account values, and more favorable case experience. The Asset Management segment reported adjusted operating income of $145 million for the current quarter, compared to $187 million in the year-ago quarter. Results for the current quarter included losses of $49 million from the segment's commercial mortgage securitization operations, reflecting unfavorable credit market conditions, compared to an $18 million contribution to adjusted operating income in the year-ago quarter. In addition, results for
Investment division
Page 4
 
the year-ago quarter included income of $44 million from incentive fees related to certain institutional real estate funds. The effect of these items was partly offset by higher income related to real estate transactions and securities lending services, as well as increased asset management fees and more favorable proprietary investing results, in the current quarter. Our Financial Advisory segment, which reflects our retail securities brokerage joint venture with Wachovia, reported adjusted operating income of $43 million for the current quarter, compared to $53 million in the year-ago quarter. Our 38% share of the venture resulted in adjusted operating income of $69 million for the current quarter, compared to $92 million in the year-ago quarter, reflecting the venture's higher expenses which more than offset increased income from fees and commissions. In addition to our share of the venture's results, the Financial Advisory segment's results for the current quarter include expenses of $26 million related to obligations and costs we retained in connection with the contributed businesses primarily for litigation and regulatory matters, while results for the year-ago quarter include $39 million of such costs.
The reported adjusted operating income of $337 million for the fourth quarter of 2007, compared to $398 million in the year-ago quarter. The International Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $297 million for the current quarter, compared to $364 million for the year-ago quarter. The segment's Life Planner insurance operations reported adjusted operating income of $183 million for the current quarter, compared to $232 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results reflected decreases of $49 million in market value of certain externally managed investments, as noted above. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income for the segment's Life Planner operations was unchanged from the year-ago quarter. Business growth, along with a favorable impact from foreign currency exchange rates of $8 million versus the year-ago quarter, were offset by higher expenses and less favorable net investment spreads in the current quarter. The segment's Gibraltar Life operations reported adjusted operating income of $114 million for the current quarter, compared to $132 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results reflected decreases of $8 million in market value of certain externally managed investments, as noted above. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income decreased $10 million from the year-ago quarter, reflecting a less favorable level of policy benefits and expenses. The International Investments segment reported
International Insurance and Investments division
Page 5
 
adjusted operating income of $40 million for the current quarter, compared to $34 million in the year-ago quarter. The increase reflected more favorable results from the segment's asset management businesses.
resulted in a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $46 million in the fourth quarter of 2007, compared to a loss of $13 million in the year-ago quarter. The greater loss reflects higher expenses, including $18 million relating to an insurance guarantee fund in the current quarter. Current quarter results also reflect a lower contribution from investment income, net of interest expense, together with less favorable results from the company's real estate and relocation business.
Corporate and Other operations
amounted to $648 billion at December 31, 2007, compared to $616 billion a year earlier. Assets under management at December 31, 2006 included $24 billion related to investments in operating joint ventures which were sold by the company during the third quarter of 2007.
Assets under management
of the Financial Services Businesses for the fourth quarter of 2007 amounted to $792 million, compared to $893 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter net income includes $14 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments. Net realized investment losses in the current quarter include $106 million of losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities and $9 million from disposals of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. These losses were partially offset by gains on sales of fixed maturity securities and private bond prepayments. At December 31, 2007, gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $1.970 billion, including $1.737 billion on investment-grade securities. Gross unrealized losses include $682 million related to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses at December 31, 2007 include $304 million of declines in value of 20% or more of amortized cost, of which $91 million represents such declines in value for three months or more. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $652 million at year-end 2006.
Net income
Page 6
 
Net income for the current quarter also reflects pre-tax decreases of $10 million in recorded asset values and $9 million in recorded liabilities representing changes in value which will ultimately accrue to contractholders. These changes primarily represent interest rate related mark-to-market adjustments. Net income for the current quarter also includes $8 million of pre-tax income from divested businesses. In addition, net income for the current quarter includes income from discontinued operations of $11 million (net of related taxes).
Net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the year-ago quarter included $130 million of net realized investment gains and related charges and adjustments, increases of $43 million in recorded assets and $17 million in recorded liabilities for which changes in value will ultimately accrue to contractholders, and income of $18 million from divested businesses, in each case before income taxes. In addition, net income for the year-ago quarter included income from discontinued operations of $17 million (net of related taxes).
Closed Block Business
Prudential's Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of its Closed Block Business.
The Closed Block Business includes our in-force participating life insurance and annuity policies, and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies.
The Closed Block Business reported income from continuing operations before income taxes of $130 million for the fourth quarter of 2007 and $207 million for the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include expense charges for dividends to closed block policyholders amounting to $745 million, compared to $715 million in the year-ago quarter. The Closed Block Business reported net income for the fourth quarter of 2007 of $79 million, compared to $144 million for the year-ago quarter.
For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Closed Block Business reported income from continuing operations before income taxes of $290 million, compared to $403 million for 2006. The Closed Block Business reported net income of $192 million for 2007 and $284 million for 2006.
Page 7
 
Consolidated Results
There is no legal separation of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock are both common stockholders of Prudential Financial, Inc.
On a consolidated basis, which includes the results of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, Prudential Financial, Inc. reported net income of $871 million for the fourth quarter of 2007 and $1.037 billion for the year-ago quarter, and reported net income of $3.704 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $3.428 billion for 2006.
Share Repurchases and Issuance
During the fourth quarter of 2007, the company acquired 7.7 million shares of its Common Stock, at a total cost of $750 million. From the commencement of share repurchases in May 2002, through December 31, 2007, the company has acquired 184.4 million shares of its Common Stock at a total cost of $10.888 billion.
Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures
Certain of the statements included in this release, including (but not limited to) those in the fourth paragraph hereof, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U. S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "includes," "plans," "assumes," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "should," "will," "shall," or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) general economic,
Page 8
 
market and political conditions, including the performance and fluctuations of stock, real estate, and other financial markets; (2) interest rate fluctuations; (3) reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims; (4) differences between actual experience regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, surrender experience, interest rates or market returns and the assumptions we use in pricing our products, establishing liabilities and reserves or for other purposes; (5) changes in our assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, valuation of business acquired or goodwill; (6) changes in our claims-paying or credit ratings; (7) investment losses and defaults; (8) competition in our product lines and for personnel; (9) changes in tax law; (10) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations; (11) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; (12) regulatory or legislative changes; (13) adverse determinations in litigation or regulatory matters and our exposure to contingent liabilities, including in connection with our divestiture or winding down of businesses; (14) domestic or international military actions, natural or man-made disasters including terrorist activities or pandemic disease, or other events resulting in catastrophic loss of life; (15) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures in identifying, monitoring and managing risks; (16) effects of acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including possible difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions; (17) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; (18) changes in assumptions for retirement expense; (19) Prudential Financial, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and continue share repurchases, and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends or distributions; and (20) risks due to the lack of legal separation between our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and is under no obligation, to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net," as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments. A significant element of realized investment gains and losses are impairments and credit-related and interest rate-related gains and losses.
Page 9
 
Impairments and losses from sales of credit-impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles, can vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses, such as interest rate-related gains or losses, is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities as well as our tax profile. Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income also excludes investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes, because these recorded changes in asset and liability values will ultimately accrue to contractholders. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. In addition, adjusted operating income excludes the results of divested businesses, which are not relevant to our ongoing operations. Discontinued operations, which is presented as a separate component of net income under GAAP, is also excluded from adjusted operating income.
We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of the results of operations of the Financial Services Businesses by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. However, adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and the excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. The schedules accompanying this release provide a reconciliation of adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses to income from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP.
Page 10
 
Our expectation of Common Stock earnings per share is based on after-tax adjusted operating income. Because we do not predict future realized investment gains / losses or recorded changes in asset and liability values that will ultimately accrue to contractholders, we cannot provide a measure of our Common Stock earnings per share expectation based on income from continuing operations of the Financial Services Businesses, which is the GAAP measure most comparable to adjusted operating income.
The information referred to above, as well as the risks of our businesses described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2007, should be considered by readers when reviewing forward-looking statements contained in this release. Additional historical information relating to our financial performance is located on our Web site at .
www.investor.prudential.com
Earnings Conference Call
Members of Prudential's senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, February 7, 2008 at 11 a.m. ET, to discuss with the investment community the company's fourth quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the company's Investor Relations Web site at: . Please log on fifteen minutes early in the event necessary software needs to be downloaded. The call will remain on the Investor Relations Web site for replay through February 22. Institutional investors, analysts, and other members of the professional financial community are invited to listen to the call and participate in Q&A by dialing (877) 777-1971 (domestic callers) or (612) 332-0226 (international callers). All others are encouraged to dial into the conference call in listen-only mode, using the same numbers. To listen to a replay of the conference call starting at 2:00 p.m. on February 7, through February 14, dial (800) 475-6701 (domestic callers) or (320) 365-3844 (international callers). The access code for the replay is 904641.
www.investor.prudential.com
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $648 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2007, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Leveraging its heritage of life insurance and asset management expertise, Prudential is focused on helping individual and institutional customers grow
Page 11
 
and protect their wealth. The company's well-known Rock symbol is an icon of strength, stability, expertise and innovation that has stood the test of time. Prudential's businesses offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. For more information, please visit .
www.prudential.com
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and are adjusted for the items above as well.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
February 6, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality (3):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
1. Adjusted operating income before income taxes:
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses that excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net", as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities; change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; results of divested businesses and discontinued operations; and the related tax effects thereof. Adjusted operating income includes equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and the related tax effects thereof. Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and are adjusted for the items above as well. Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
2. After-tax adjusted operating income:
Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes.
3. Assets Under Management:
Fair market value or account value of assets which Prudential manages directly in proprietary products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, in separate accounts, wrap-fee products and the general account, and assets invested in investment options included in the Company's products that are managed by third party sub-managers (i.e., the non-proprietary investment options in the Company's products).
4. Attributed Equity:
Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business.
5. Book value per share of Common Stock:
Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by the number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis.
6. Borrowings - Capital Debt:
Borrowings that are or will be used for capital requirements at Prudential Financial, Inc as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial, Inc., and subsidiary borrowings, utilized for capital requirements.
7. Borrowings - Investment Related:
Debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment
portfolios, real estate, and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences.
8. Borrowings - Securities Business Related:
Debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker-dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations.
9. Borrowings - Specified Other Businesses:
Borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, the individual annuity business, real estate franchises, and relocation services.
10. Client Assets:
Fair market value of assets in client accounts of International brokerage operations, Prudential Bank and mortgage loan servicing business, that are not included in Assets Under Management. Prudential does not receive a management or administrative fee on these assets, but may receive a fee for executing trades, custody or recordkeeping services.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
11. Earned Premiums:
The portion of a premium, net of any amount ceded, that represents coverage already provided or that belongs to the insurer based on the part of the policy period that has passed.
12. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock:
Net income for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments modify earnings available to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. Earnings per share of Common Stock based on adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses reflects these adjustments as well.
13. Full Service:
The Full Service line of business provides retirement plan products and services to public, private and not-for-profit organizations. This business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, participant education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investment funds. This business mainly services defined contribution and defined benefit plans; non-qualified plans are also serviced. For clients with both defined contribution and defined benefit plans, integrated recordkeeping services are available. For participants leaving these plans, a range of rollover products are provided through a broker-dealer bank.
14. Full Service Stable Value:
Our Full Service Stable Value products represent fixed rate options on investment funds offered to customers. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time. Upon termination these products repay account balances at market value immediately or may be liquidated at book value over time. Substantially all of these products are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual resets giving effect to previous investment experience. These products are issued through the general account, separate accounts or client-owned trusts. Profits from partially participating general account products result from the spread between the rate of return on investment assets and the interest rates credited to the customer, less expenses. For fully participating products, generally subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee, we earn fee income.
15. General Account:
Invested assets and policyholder liabilities and reserves for which the Company bears the investment risk. Excludes assets recognized for statutory purposes that are specifically allocated to a separate account. General account assets also include assets of the parent company, Prudential Financial, Inc.
16. Gibraltar Life Advisors:
Insurance representatives for Gibraltar Life.
17. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Administrative Operating Expense Ratios:
Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income.
18. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Benefits Ratios:
Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income.
19. Individual Annuity Account Values in General Account and Separate Account:
Amounts represent the breakdown of invested customer funds in annuities either written or reinsured by the Company.
20. Individual Life Insurance Sales:
Scheduled premiums from new sales on an annualized basis and first year excess premiums and deposits on a cash-received basis.
21. Insurance and Annuity Benefits:
Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, and losses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
22. International Life Planners:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations outside the United States, excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors. Excludes Life Planners associated with discontinued Philippine operations.
23. New annualized premiums:
Premiums from new sales that are expected to be collected over a one year period. Group insurance new annualized premiums exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage issued under our Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance contract, and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts. Group insurance new annualized premiums include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. Group disability amounts include long-term care products. Single premium business for the Company's international insurance operations is included in annualized new business premiums based on 10% credit.
24. Non-recourse and Limited-recourse Debt:
Limited and non-recourse borrowing is where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets.
25. Operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income):
Adjusted operating income after-tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits.
An alternative measure to operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income) is return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations). Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) represents income from continuing operations after-tax as determined in accordance with GAAP (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average total attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses. Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) is 16.20% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, 14.67% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, 14.43% for the three months ended December 31, 2007, 16.33% for the three months ended December 31, 2006, 16.14% for the three months ended September 30, 2007, 15.97% for the three months ended June 30, 2007, and 18.25% for the three months ended March 31, 2007.
26. Policy Persistency - Group Insurance:
Percentage of the premiums in force at the end of the prior year that are still in force at the end of the period (excluding Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Prudential Employee Benefit Plan).
27. Policy Persistency - International Insurance:
13 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their second policy
year. 25 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their third policy year.
28. Prudential Agents:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations in the United States.
29. Prudential Agent productivity:
Commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents under contract for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. Excludes
commissions on new sales by Prudential Agents hired or departed during the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
30. Ratio of capital debt to total capitalization:
For purposes of this ratio, we measure "debt" as borrowings for capital debt, and we measure "total capitalization" as the sum of equity, excluding
accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments, pension and postretirement benefits and capital debt.
31. Separate Accounts:
Assets of our insurance companies allocated under certain policies and contracts that are segregated from the general account and other separate accounts. The policyholder or contractholder predominantly bears the risk of investments held in a separate account.
32. Wrap-Fee Products:
Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the customer are generally invested in other
investment products such as mutual funds.
 
 
RATINGS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
INSURANCE CLAIMS PAYING RATINGS
as of February 6, 2008
 
 
INVESTOR INFORMATION:
 
Common Stock:
Common Stock of Prudential Financial, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PRU.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Investments in Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities - December 31, 2007
($ millions)
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
 
 
Excluded from the table above are available for sale asset-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $279 million and fair value of $281 million. Based on amortized cost, 73% of these securities have credit ratings of AAA and the remaining 27% have credit ratings of BBB or below. As of December 31, 2007, included within these asset-backed securities are securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages with amortized cost and fair value of $11 million, all of which have AAA credit ratings, with $10 million in the 2006 vintage and $1 million in the 2003 vintage. Also included are collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost of $79 million and fair value of $81 million, with none secured by sub-prime mortgages. Also excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $1.2 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contractholders. An additional $37 million are classified as other trading, 40% of which have credit ratings of AAA or better and the remaining 60% have BBB or below credit ratings.
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of December 31, 2007, based on amortized cost, 96% of the residential mortgage-backed securities classified as available for sale in the general account of the Financial Services Businesses were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AA or AAA. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $61 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining 4% of residential mortgage-backed securities; all have credit ratings of A or above.
Excluded from the table above are available for sale residential mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $603 million ($608 million fair value), all of which have AAA credit ratings. Also excluded from the table above are $1.1 billion of residential mortgage-backed securities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and carried at fair value, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contractholders.
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
As of December 31, 2007, based on amortized cost, 92% of commercial mortgage-backed securities have AAA credit ratings, 2% have AA credit ratings, 1% have A credit ratings, and the remaining 5% have BBB or below credit ratings.
Excluded from the table above are available for sale commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost and fair value of $10 million, 50% of which have credit ratings of AAA and the remaining 50% have credit ratings of BB. Also excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $2.6 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contractholders. An additional $794 million are classified as other trading, of which 89% have AAA credit ratings, 3% have AA credit ratings, 6% have A credit ratings, and the remaining 2% have BBB or below credit ratings.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Investments in Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities - December 31, 2007
($ millions)
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
 
 
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of December 31, 2007, based on amortized cost, 86% of the residential mortgage-backed securities in the Closed Block Business were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AA or AAA. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $137 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining 14% of residential mortgage-backed securities and all have credit ratings of A or above.
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
As of December 31, 2007, based on amortized cost, 97% of commercial mortgage-backed securities have AAA credit ratings, 1% have AA credit ratings, and the remaining 2% have A or BBB credit ratings.


