FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20081029161827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.0, a news release announcing third quarter 2008 results.
See also Item 7.01 below, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
As of September 30, 2008, on an amortized cost basis, $774 million, or 2%, of fixed maturity investments attributable to the Closed Block Business were supported by bond insurance. As of September 30, 2008, 72% of these investments had credit ratings of A or higher, reflecting the credit quality of the monoline bond insurers. Management estimates, taking into account the structure and credit quality of the underlying investments and giving no effect to the support of these securities by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, that 88% of the $774 million total (based upon amortized cost) would have investment grade credit ratings. Based on amortized cost, $544 million of the $774 million of securities supported by bond insurance were asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, $103 million were other asset-backed securities, and $127 million were municipal bonds. Management estimates that 85% of the asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, 91% of the other asset-backed securities, and all of the municipal bonds would have investment grade credit ratings giving no effect to the support of these securities by guarantees from monoline bond insurers. As of September 30, 2008, the bond insurance is provided by five insurance companies, with no company representing more than 34% of the overall amortized cost of the securities supported by bond insurance attributable to the Closed Block Business.
Parent Company Short-term Investments and Borrowings
As of September 30, 2008, the parent holding company, Prudential Financial, had cash and short-term investments of $3.821 billion, which included $671 million of subsidiary funds that were invested short-term with Prudential Financial as part of our intercompany liquidity program. The short-term investments comprise $1.059 billion of this amount and consist primarily of government agency securities and money market funds.
As of September 30, 2008, parent company short-term borrowings amounted to $6.619 billion. This amount includes $761 million under a commercial paper program, $4.883 billion principal amount of convertible debt securities, $697 million representing foreign currency denominated bridge loan facilities, and $278 million current portion of long-term debt. The majority of the parent company's outstanding commercial paper proceeds are invested in short-term financial instruments. As of September 30, 2008, this commercial paper had an average maturity of 16 days and approximately 29% was overnight. The next dates on which holders of the convertible notes may require Prudential Financial to repurchase the notes are December 12, 2008 with respect to $1.883 billion and June 15, 2009 with respect to $3.0 billion. The foreign currency denominated bridge loan facilities mature on February 13, 2009 and the majority of the current portion of long-term debt matures in the first quarter of 2009.
Prudential Financial's short-term debt, including commercial paper, is rated A-1, P-2, and F1 by Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch, respectively. Based on these ratings, Prudential Financial is eligible to participate in the Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF) sponsored by the Federal government. The Federal Reserve has announced that CPFF will purchase eligible three-month unsecured and asset-backed U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper from eligible issuers. The maximum amount of commercial paper an issuer can sell to CPFF is equivalent to the greatest amount of U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper the issuer had outstanding during any single day between January 1, 2008 and August 31, 2008. The greatest amount of commercial paper Prudential Financial had outstanding during this period was $1.3 billion on January 1, 2008. Unsecured commercial paper purchased by the CPFF will be discounted based on a rate equal to a spread (200 basis points) over the three-month overnight index swap rate on the day of purchase. As of October 28, 2008, Prudential Financial has been granted approval to participate in the CPFF. Access to the CPFF is scheduled to terminate on April 30, 2009, unless such date is extended by the Federal Reserve.
Prudential Funding, LLC Commercial Paper Program
As of September 30, 2008, Prudential Funding, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, had outstanding commercial paper and master note borrowings of $7.0 billion, of which $3.5 billion of the proceeds were invested in short-term financial instruments and the remainder was primarily utilized to fund short term cash flow timing mismatches, and fund working capital needs of our affiliates. As of September 30, 2008, Prudential Funding, LLC's outstanding commercial paper had a weighted average maturity of 15 days, and approximately 28% was overnight. Prudential Funding's commercial paper is rated A-1+, P-1, and F1+ by Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch, respectively. Based on these ratings, Prudential Funding is also eligible to participate in the CPFF and would be eligible to sell up to $9.8 billion of commercial paper to CPFF, which is the amount Prudential Funding had outstanding on March 18, 2008. We are currently evaluating whether we will apply for participation in the CPFF on behalf of Prudential Funding.
Asset-based Financing
As of September 30, 2008, Prudential's Financial Services Businesses had liabilities totaling $6.938 billion under asset-based financing programs, including $4.209 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase, $2.231 billion representing cash collateral for loaned securities and $498 million of securities sold but not yet purchased. Under these programs, the company loans securities in return for cash collateral which is primarily used to purchase securities for the short-term spread portfolios in our domestic insurance entities. These portfolios comprise cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and fixed maturities with a weighted average life at the time of purchase of two years or less. Of the total $6.938 billion, $3.126 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder has maturities ranging from 2 days to 3 months with a weighted average maturity of 12 days. As of September 30, 2008, the securities lending program represented approximately 3.9% of total investments of $180.0 billion for the Financial Services Businesses.
As of September 30, 2008, Prudential's Closed Block Business had liabilities totaling $5.466 billion under such programs, including $4.217 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase and $1.249 billion representing cash collateral for loaned securities. Of the total $5.466 billion, $2.784 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder has maturities ranging from 2 days to 3 months with a weighted average maturity of 13 days. As of September 30, 2008, the securities lending program represented approximately 9.0% of total investments of $60.9 billion for the Closed Block Business.
Ratings-Driven Contingencies
A downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of Prudential Financial or its rated subsidiaries could result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. A ratings downgrade of three ratings levels would result in estimated collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $175 million. In addition, a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best to A- for our domestic life insurance companies would require Prudential Insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of $1.25 billion that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $125 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. We believe that the posting of such collateral would not be a material liquidity event for Prudential Insurance.
In addition, agreements in connection with capital management activities for our universal life insurance products would require us to post cash collateral based on tests that consider the level of 10-year credit default swap spreads on Prudential Financial's senior debt. We estimate that the collateral posting requirements would range from $100 million to $200 million at effective 10-year credit default swap spreads of 700 to 2,000 basis points.
Federal Home Loan Bank of New York Facility
In June 2008, Prudential Insurance became a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, or FHLBNY. Membership allows Prudential Insurance to participate in FHLBNY's product line of financial services, including funding agreements, general asset/liability management, and collateralized advances that can be used for liquidity management.
Under guidance of the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, the total amount of securities that can be pledged as collateral by Prudential Insurance to FHLBNY is limited to 5% of the prior year's admitted assets of Prudential Insurance, exclusive of separate account assets, which equates to $7.7 billion based on admitted assets as of December 31, 2007. Based on this permitted amount, the eligible securities available at Prudential Insurance, and net of the 4.5% activity based stock we would be obligated to purchase from FHLBNY based on maximum borrowings, the estimated total borrowing capacity with the FHLBNY is $6.7 billion, as of September 30, 2008. As of September 30, 2008, outstanding borrowings with FHLBNY amounted to $100 million.
Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities
As of September 30, 2008, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $5.0 billion. These facilities are available to each of the borrowers, up to the aggregate committed credit, to be used for general corporate purposes. This amount includes a $500 million 364-day credit facility that expires in December 2008, which includes eight financial institutions, a $2.0 billion 5-year credit facility that expires in May 2012, which includes 22 financial institutions, and an additional $2.5 billion credit facility, of which $200 million expires in December 2011 and $2.3 billion expires in December 2012, which includes 20 financial institutions. Subsequent to September 30, 2008, Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc., a lender in the $2.0 billion facility for a total of $60 million, filed for bankruptcy bringing the current total of unsecured committed credit lines available to $4.94 billion. Within each facility, no single financial institution has more than 15% of the total committed credit. Borrowings under the outstanding facilities will mature no later than the respective expiration dates of the facilities and will bear interest at the rates set forth in each facility agreement. We maintain these facilities primarily as back-up liquidity lines for our commercial paper programs, and there were no outstanding borrowings under any of these facilities as of September 30, 2008.
Our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on the continued satisfaction of customary conditions, including maintenance at all times by Prudential Insurance of total adjusted capital of at least $5.5 billion based on statutory accounting principles prescribed under New Jersey law and Prudential Financial's maintenance of consolidated net worth of at least $12.5 billion, calculated in accordance with GAAP. Our ability to borrow under these facilities is not contingent on our credit ratings or subject to material adverse change clauses. Prudential Insurance's total adjusted capital was $8.5 billion and $11.0 billion as of June 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, and we expect this amount to be $7.3 billion as of September 30, 2008. Prudential Financial's net worth on a consolidated basis totaled $18.7 billion and $23.5 billion as of September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. We also use uncommitted lines of credit from banks and other financial institutions.
Credit Derivative Exposure to Public Fixed Maturities
The company has sold credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments.
In a credit derivative we sell credit protection on an identified name, or a basket of names in a first to default structure, and in return receive a quarterly premium. With single name credit default derivatives, this premium or credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the referenced name's public fixed maturity cash instruments and swap rates, at the time the agreement is executed. With first-to-default baskets, because of the additional credit risk inherent in a basket of named credits, the premium generally corresponds to a high proportion of the sum of the credit spreads of the names in the basket. If there is an event of default by the referenced name or one of the referenced names in a basket, as defined by the agreement, then we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced defaulted security or similar security. After the first default the contract is terminated and any subsequent defaults on the remaining names within such instruments require no further payment to counterparties.
The vast majority of referenced names in the credit derivatives where we have sold credit protection, as well as all the counterparties to these agreements, are investment grade credit quality and our credit derivatives generally have maturities of five years or less. As of September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had $1.439 billion and $1.618 billion, respectively, in outstanding notional amounts of credit derivative contracts where we have sold credit protection. The Financial Services Businesses had $1.353 billion and $1.290 billion of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as a liability of $162 million and $99 million, as of September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. The Closed Block Business had $86 million and $328 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as a liability of $2 million and $2 million, as of September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively.
In addition to selling credit protection, we have purchased credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio, including exposures relating to certain guarantees from monoline bond insurers. Substantially all of the counterparties from which the company has purchased credit protection are investment grade credit quality. As of September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the Financial Services Businesses had $1.388 billion and $376 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as an asset of $197 million and $25 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the Closed Block Business had $300 million and $205 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as an asset of $61 million and $5 million, respectively.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 29, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today reported a net loss for its Financial Services Businesses of $108 million (23 cents per Common share) for the third quarter of 2008, compared to net income of $860 million ($1.88 per Common share) for the year-ago quarter. After-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses was $308 million (74 cents per Common share) for the third quarter of 2008, compared to $976 million ($2.13 per Common share) for the third quarter of 2007. Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure as discussed below.
NEWARK, N.J. 
For the first nine months of 2008, net income for the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $544 million ($1.32 per Common share) compared to $2.720 billion ($5.86 per Common share) for the first nine months of 2007. After-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses for the first nine months of 2008 amounted to $1.905 billion ($4.43 per Common share) compared to $2.693 billion ($5.80 per Common share) for the first nine months of 2007.
"Unfavorable financial market conditions are having a substantial negative effect on reported results of our domestic businesses and market values in our investment portfolio. We believe that our strong balance sheet, financial flexibility, and balanced mix of businesses and risks position us well to manage through the challenging current environment and to achieve long-term results consistent with our goals. Our risk management skills and innovative products, supported by a history of making and keeping promises for more than 130 years, form an attractive value proposition in a market with renewed focus on protecting wealth and retirement security," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld.
Page 2
 
In light of current market volatility and extraordinary events and developments affecting financial markets generally, the Company has determined to withdraw its earnings guidance for 2008.
Adjusted operating income is not calculated under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Information regarding adjusted operating income, a non-GAAP measure, is discussed later in this press release under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures," and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the most comparable GAAP measure is provided in the tables that accompany this release.
Financial Services Businesses
Prudential Financial's Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of its Financial Services Businesses, which consist of its Insurance, Investment, and International Insurance and Investments divisions and its Corporate and Other operations. In the following business-level discussion, adjusted operating income refers to pre-tax results.
Third quarter 2008 pre-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses includes a net negative impact of $591 million from annual reviews of actuarial assumptions including the impact of market conditions, and other significant discrete items, as discussed below and enumerated in a schedule accompanying this release.
The reported adjusted operating income of $32 million for the third quarter of 2008, compared to $556 million in the year-ago quarter.
Insurance division
Our Individual Life segment reported adjusted operating income of $238 million for the current quarter, compared to $251 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited from a $79 million net reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs reflecting updates of our actuarial assumptions based on an annual review, while results for the year-ago quarter included a net benefit from similar items totaling $78 million. Current quarter adjusted operating income also included $53 million from compensation received based on multi-year profitability of third party products we distribute, while results for the year-ago quarter included a similar benefit amounting to $57 million. Excluding these items, adjusted operating income of the Individual Life segment decreased $10 million from a year ago. Higher net
 
Page 3
 
amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs relating to current quarter experience, reflecting less favorable separate account performance than that of the year-ago quarter, was partially offset by more favorable mortality experience in the current quarter.
Our Individual Annuities segment reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $307 million in the current quarter, compared to adjusted operating income of $205 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include a charge of $380 million representing a net increase in costs associated with guaranteed minimum death benefits and amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs based on an annual review, reflecting an updated estimate of profitability for this business that was largely driven by declines in customer account values through September 30, 2008 and included revised assumptions as to costs associated with death benefit guarantees. Results for the year-ago quarter included a $30 million net benefit from a similar annual review. Less favorable results from mark-to-market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with living benefits, after related amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, contributed $44 million to the decrease in adjusted operating income, reflecting net costs of $37 million in the current quarter compared to a benefit of $7 million in the year-ago quarter. The current quarter net costs reflected financial market conditions and changes in assumptions associated with the annual review. Excluding the items relating to the annual reviews and mark-to-market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions, adjusted operating income for the Individual Annuities segment declined $58 million from the year-ago quarter. This decrease came largely from higher net amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and higher costs for guaranteed minimum death and other benefits, in each case relating to unfavorable current quarter experience driven by market value declines in customer account values.
Our Group Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $101 million in the current quarter, essentially unchanged from $100 million in the year-ago quarter. Results for the current quarter and the year-ago quarter each benefited $13 million from refinements of group disability reserves based on annual reviews.
 
Page 4
 
The reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $92 million for the third quarter of 2008, compared to adjusted operating income of $311 million in the year-ago quarter.
Investment division
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $133 million for the current quarter, compared to $65 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited $12 million from net refinements of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and related items, including the impact of an annual review of actuarial assumptions, while results for the year-ago quarter included an $81 million charge reflecting payments to clients who authorized us to proceed on their behalf to pursue remedies associated with losses attributable to certain investment funds managed by State Street Global Advisers, Inc. Excluding these items, adjusted operating income of the Retirement segment was $25 million below the level of the year-ago quarter, reflecting higher expenses including costs to enhance client service and distribution capabilities as well as lower fees associated with market value declines in customer account values.
The Asset Management segment reported a loss of $8 million for the current quarter, compared to adjusted operating income of $161 million for the year-ago quarter. The decrease came primarily from unfavorable results from the segment's proprietary investing business, which included current quarter losses of approximately $110 million from investment results in fixed income and equity investments compared to income of approximately $10 million from corresponding investment results in the year-ago quarter. In addition, current quarter results reflected a lower contribution from performance-based fees, primarily related to institutional real estate funds, than the year-ago quarter.
Our Financial Advisory segment reported a loss of $217 million for the current quarter, compared to adjusted operating income of $85 million for the year-ago quarter. The Financial Advisory segment reflects our retail securities brokerage joint venture with Wachovia. On January 1, 2008, Wachovia combined the acquired retail securities brokerage business of A.G. Edwards, Inc. with the joint venture. The Company's initial share of the results of the joint venture and transition costs, subsequent to this combination, is based on a diluted ownership level which is currently being finalized. Based on our estimate of the level of ownership, our share of the venture resulted in a loss of $215 million, after absorption of $235 million of costs associated with the
 
Page 5
 
settlement with regulators of investigations concerning the underwriting, sale, and subsequent auction of certain auction rate securities by Wachovia Securities, as well as $37 million of transition costs related to Wachovia's acquisition of A. G. Edwards. For the year-ago quarter, our 38% share of the venture resulted in adjusted operating income of $97 million. In addition to our share of the venture's results, the Financial Advisory segment's results for the current quarter include expenses of $2 million related to obligations and costs we retained in connection with the contributed businesses primarily for litigation and regulatory matters, while results for the year-ago quarter include $12 million of such costs.
The reported adjusted operating income of $497 million for the third quarter of 2008, compared to $537 million in the year-ago quarter.
International Insurance and Investments division
The International Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $460 million for the current quarter, an increase of $37 million from the year-ago quarter. The segment's Life Planner insurance operations reported adjusted operating income of $293 million for the current quarter, an increase of $27 million from the year-ago quarter, reflecting continued business growth together with an improved contribution from investment results reflecting duration lengthening. The segment's Gibraltar Life operations reported adjusted operating income of $167 million for the current quarter, an increase of $10 million from the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited from an improved contribution from investment results, reflecting increased investing in U.S. dollar-based securities, increased exposure to corporate securities, and investment duration lengthening. Foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of the Company's currency hedging programs, did not have a significant effect on the comparison of results for the segment's international insurance businesses.
The International Investments segment reported adjusted operating income of $37 million for the current quarter, compared to $114 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include income of $14 million from market value changes in securities held relating to trading exchange memberships, while results for the year-ago quarter included income of $37 million from the sale of an interest in operating joint ventures; income of $22 million from market value changes
 
Page 6
 
in securities held relating to trading exchange memberships; and a benefit of $17 million from recoveries related to a former investment of our Korean asset management operations. Excluding these items, adjusted operating income from the International Investments segment decreased $15 million, primarily due to less favorable results from the segment's Korean asset management operations.
resulted in a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $21 million in the third quarter of 2008, compared to a loss of $12 million in the year-ago quarter. The real estate and relocation business reported a loss of $4 million for the current quarter, compared to adjusted operating income of $21 million in the year-ago quarter. Lower expenses for corporate and other operations in the current quarter were largely offset by increased interest expense, net of investment income, reflecting the company's issuance of $1.5 billion of junior subordinated long-term debt securities earlier this year.
Corporate and Other operations
amounted to $602 billion at September 30, 2008, compared to $637 billion a year earlier and $648 billion at December 31, 2007.
Assets under management
Theof the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $108 million for the third quarter of 2008, compared to net income of $860 million in the year-ago quarter. The current quarter net loss includes $547 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments. Considering current market conditions and in light of recent general guidance from the SEC and FASB regarding the application of existing accounting guidance for securities investments during periods of stressed financial market conditions, commencing in the third quarter of 2008 our determinations of whether declines in value are other-than-temporary, for securities which we have the intent and ability to hold until recovery of value, place greater emphasis on our analysis of underlying credit characteristics than on the extent and duration of declines in fair value. Net realized investment losses in the current quarter include $502 million of losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities. The losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities reflect $420 million on fixed maturity investments and derivatives, including $91 million of impairments relating to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, and $71 million of impairments on equity securities. The Company estimates that
net loss
 
Page 7
 
approximately $38 million of the $91 million impairments recorded on asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages represent credit-related losses, based on lower expected collection of cash flows.
At September 30, 2008, gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $5.850 billion, including $5.099 billion on investment-grade securities. Gross unrealized losses include $1.201 billion related to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses at September 30, 2008 include $1.970 billion of declines in value of 20% or more of amortized cost, of which $397 million represents such declines in value for three months or more. An additional $772 million of the gross unrealized losses at September 30, 2008 represent declines in value ranging from 15% to 20% of amortized cost, of which $184 million represents such declines in value for three months or more. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $1.970 billion at year-end 2007. Net unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $3.522 billion at September 30, 2008, compared to net unrealized gains of $1.332 billion at December 31, 2007.
The net loss for the current quarter also reflects pre-tax decreases of $534 million in recorded asset values and $388 million in recorded liabilities representing changes in value which will ultimately accrue to contractholders. These changes primarily represent interest rate related mark-to-market adjustments. The net loss for the current quarter also includes $3 million of pre-tax losses from divested businesses. In addition, net income for the current quarter includes income from discontinued operations of $5 million (net of related taxes).
Net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the year-ago quarter included $180 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments, increases of $36 million in recorded assets and $6 million in recorded liabilities for which changes in value will ultimately accrue to contractholders, and losses of $27 million from divested businesses, in each case before income taxes. In addition, net income for the year-ago quarter included losses from discontinued operations of $4 million (net of related taxes).
 
Page 8
 
Closed Block Business
Prudential's Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of its Closed Block Business.
The Closed Block Business includes our in-force participating life insurance and annuity policies, and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies.
The Closed Block Business reported a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $113 million for the third quarter of 2008, compared to income from continuing operations before income taxes of $8 million for the year-ago quarter, reflecting less favorable investment results in the current quarter. The Closed Block Business reported a net loss for the third quarter of 2008 of $58 million, compared to net income of $7 million for the year-ago quarter.
For the first nine months of 2008, the Closed Block Business reported a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $101 million, compared to income from continuing operations before income taxes of $160 million for the first nine months of 2007. The Closed Block Business reported a net loss of $51 million for the first nine months of 2008 compared to net income of $113 million for the first nine months of 2007.
Consolidated Results
There is no legal separation of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock are both common stockholders of Prudential Financial, Inc.
On a consolidated basis, which includes the results of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, Prudential Financial, Inc. reported a net loss of $166 million for the third quarter of 2008, compared to net income of $867 million for the year-ago quarter, and reported net income of $493 million for the first nine months of 2008 and $2.833 billion for the first nine months of 2007.
 
Page 9
 
Share Repurchases and Issuance
During the third quarter of 2008, the company acquired 5.4 million shares of its Common Stock, at a total cost of $375 million. From the commencement of share repurchases in May 2002, through September 30, 2008, the company has acquired 213 million shares of its Common Stock at a total cost of $13.013 billion. As previously announced, in light of recent market volatility and extraordinary events and developments affecting financial markets generally, including market conditions for issuance of certain capital instruments such as hybrid securities, the Company suspended all purchases of its Common Stock under its existing share repurchase program effective October 10, 2008.
Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures
Certain of the statements included in this release constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U. S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "includes," "plans," "assumes," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "should," "will," "shall," or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) general economic, market and political conditions, including the performance and fluctuations of fixed income, equity, real estate, and other financial markets, particularly in light of the stress experienced by the global financial markets that began in the second half of 2007 and substantially increased in the third quarter of 2008; (2) the availability and cost of external financing for our operations, which has been affected by the stress experienced by the global financial markets ; (3) interest rate fluctuations; (4) reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims; (5) differences between actual experience regarding mortality,
 
Page 10
 
morbidity, persistency, surrender experience, interest rates or market returns and the assumptions we use in pricing our products, establishing liabilities and reserves or for other purposes; (6) changes in our assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, valuation of business acquired or goodwill; (7) changes in our claims-paying or credit ratings; (8) investment losses and defaults; (9) competition in our product lines and for personnel; (10) changes in tax law; (11) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations; (12) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; (13) regulatory or legislative changes , including government actions in response to the stress experienced by the global financial markets; (14) changes in our claims paying or financial strength ratings; (15) adverse determinations in litigation or regulatory matters and our exposure to contingent liabilities, including in connection with our divestiture or winding down of businesses; (16) domestic or international military actions, natural or man-made disasters including terrorist activities or pandemic disease, or other events resulting in catastrophic loss of life; (17) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures in identifying, monitoring and managing risks; (18) effects of acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including possible difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions; (19) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; (20) changes in assumptions for retirement expense; (21) Prudential Financial, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends or distributions in light of our ratings objectives and/or applicable regulatory restrictions; and (22) risks due to the lack of legal separation between our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and is under no obligation, to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net," as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments. A significant element of realized investment gains and losses are impairments and credit-related and interest rate-related gains and losses.
 
Page 11
 
Impairments and losses from sales of credit-impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles, can vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses, such as interest rate-related gains or losses, is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities as well as our tax profile.
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities related to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as counterparty credit losses on derivative positions experienced during the third quarter of 2008.
Adjusted operating income also excludes investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes, because these recorded changes in asset and liability values will ultimately accrue to contractholders. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. In addition, adjusted operating income excludes the results of divested businesses, which are not relevant to our ongoing operations. Discontinued operations, which is presented as a separate component of net income under GAAP, is also excluded from adjusted operating income.
We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of the results of operations of the Financial Services Businesses by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. However, adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and the excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. The schedules accompanying this release provide a reconciliation of adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses to income from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP.
 
Page 12
 
The information referred to above, as well as the risks of our businesses described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, should be considered by readers when reviewing forward-looking statements contained in this release. Additional historical information relating to our financial performance is located on our Web site at .
www.investor.prudential.com
Earnings Conference Call
Members of Prudential's senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, October 30, 2008 at 11 a.m. ET, to discuss with the investment community the company's third quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the company's Investor Relations Web site at: . Please log on fifteen minutes early in the event necessary software needs to be downloaded. The call will remain on the Investor Relations Web site for replay through November 14. Institutional investors, analysts, and other members of the professional financial community are invited to listen to the call and participate in Q&A by dialing (877) 777-1971 (domestic callers) or (612) 332-0226 (international callers). All others are encouraged to dial into the conference call in listen-only mode, using the same numbers. To listen to a replay of the conference call starting at 2:30 p.m. on October 30, through November 7, dial (800) 475-6701 (domestic callers) or (320) 365-3844 (international callers). The access code for the replay is 904644.
www.investor.prudential.com
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $602 billion of assets under management as of September 30, 2008, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Leveraging its heritage of life insurance and asset management expertise, Prudential is focused on helping approximately 50 million individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth. The company's well-known Rock symbol is an icon of strength, stability, expertise and innovation that has stood the test of time. Prudential's businesses offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. For more information, please visit .
www.news.prudential.com
 
Page 13
 
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses - Third Quarter 2008
Impact of Annual Actuarial Updates, Including the Impact of Market Conditions, and Other Significant Discrete Items
(in millions)
 
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as counterparty credit losses on derivative positions experienced during the third quarter of 2008.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Reference is made to Prudential Financial, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for general information, and consolidated financial information, regarding Prudential Financial, Inc., including its Closed Block Business. All financial information in this document is unaudited.
October 29, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
1. Adjusted operating income before income taxes:
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses that excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net", as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities; change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; results of divested businesses and discontinued operations; and the related tax effects thereof. Adjusted operating income includes equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and the related tax effects thereof. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and are adjusted for the items above as well.
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as counterparty credit losses on derivative positions experienced during the third quarter of 2008.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
2. After-tax adjusted operating income:
Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes.
3. Assets Under Management:
Fair market value or account value of assets which Prudential manages directly in proprietary products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, in separate accounts, wrap-fee products and the general account, and assets invested in investment options included in the Company's products that are managed by third party sub-managers (i.e., the non-proprietary investment options in the Company's products).
4. Attributed Equity:
Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business.
5. Book value per share of Common Stock:
Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by the number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis.
6. Borrowings - Capital Debt:
Borrowings that are or will be used for capital requirements at Prudential Financial, Inc as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial, Inc., and subsidiary borrowings, utilized for capital requirements.
7. Borrowings - Investment Related:
Debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate, and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences.
8. Borrowings - Securities Business Related:
Debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker-dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations including our discontinued commercial mortgage conduit related activities.
9. Borrowings - Specified Other Businesses:
Borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, the individual annuity business, real estate franchises, and relocation services.
10. Client Assets:
Fair market value of assets in client accounts of International brokerage operations, Prudential Bank and mortgage loan servicing business, that are not included in Assets Under Management. Prudential does not receive a management or administrative fee on these assets, but may receive a fee for executing trades, custody or recordkeeping services.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
11. Earned Premiums:
The portion of a premium, net of any amount ceded, that represents coverage already provided or that belongs to the insurer based on the part of the policy period that has passed.
12. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock:
Net income for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments modify earnings available to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. Earnings per share of Common Stock based on adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses reflects these adjustments as well.
13. Full Service:
The Full Service line of business provides retirement plan products and services to public, private and not-for-profit organizations. This business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, participant education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investment funds. This business mainly services defined contribution and defined benefit plans; non-qualified plans are also serviced. For clients with both defined contribution and defined benefit plans, integrated recordkeeping services are available. For participants leaving these plans, a range of rollover products are provided through a broker-dealer bank.
14. Full Service Stable Value:
Our Full Service Stable Value products represent fixed rate options on investment funds offered to customers. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time. Upon termination these products repay account balances at market value immediately or may be liquidated at book value over time. Substantially all of these products are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual resets giving effect to previous investment experience. These products are issued through the general account, separate accounts or client-owned trusts. Profits from partially participating general account products result from the spread between the rate of return on investment assets and the interest rates credited to the customer, less expenses. For fully participating products, generally subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee, we earn fee income.
15. General Account:
Invested assets and policyholder liabilities and reserves for which the Company bears the investment risk. Excludes assets recognized for statutory purposes that are specifically allocated to a separate account. General account assets also include assets of the parent company, Prudential Financial, Inc.
16. Gibraltar Life Advisors:
Insurance representatives for Gibraltar Life.
17. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Administrative Operating Expense Ratios:
Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income.
18. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Benefits Ratios:
Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income.
19. Individual Annuity Account Values in General Account and Separate Account:
Amounts represent the breakdown of invested customer funds in annuities either written or reinsured by the Company.
20. Individual Life Insurance Sales:
Scheduled premiums from new sales on an annualized basis and first year excess premiums and deposits on a cash-received basis.
21. Insurance and Annuity Benefits:
Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, and losses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
22. International Life Planners:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations outside the United States, excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors. Excludes Life Planners associated with discontinued Philippine operations.
23. New annualized premiums:
Premiums from new sales that are expected to be collected over a one year period. Group insurance new annualized premiums exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage issued under our Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance contract, and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts. Group insurance new annualized premiums include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. Group disability amounts include long-term care products. Single premium business for the Company's international insurance operations is included in annualized new business premiums based on 10% credit.
24. Non-recourse and Limited-recourse Debt:
Limited and non-recourse borrowing is where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets.
25. Operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income):
Adjusted operating income after-tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits.
An alternative measure to operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income) is return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations). Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) represents income from continuing operations after-tax as determined in accordance with GAAP (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average total attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses. Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) is 3.67% for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, 16.82% for the nine months ended September 30, 2007, -2.10% for the three months ended September 30, 2008, 16.14% for the three months ended September 30, 2007, 11.28% for the three months ended June 30, 2008, 1.58% for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and 14.43% for the three months ended December 31, 2007.
26. Policy Persistency - Group Insurance:
Percentage of the premiums in force at the end of the prior year that are still in force at the end of the period (excluding Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Prudential Employee Benefit Plan).
27. Policy Persistency - International Insurance:
13 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their second policy year. 25 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their third policy year.
28. Prudential Agents:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations in the United States.
29. Prudential Agent productivity:
Commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents under contract for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. Excludes commissions on new sales by Prudential Agents hired or departed during the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
30. Ratio of capital debt to total capitalization:
For the purposes of this ratio, we measure "debt" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs and 25% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and we measure "total capitalization" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs, 100% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and attributed equity of the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension / postretirement benefits.
31. Separate Accounts:
Assets of our insurance companies allocated under certain policies and contracts that are segregated from the general account and other separate accounts. The policyholder or contractholder predominantly bears the risk of investments held in a separate account.
32. Wrap-Fee Products:
Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the customer are generally invested in other investment products such as mutual funds.
 
 
RATINGS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
INSURANCE CLAIMS PAYING RATINGS
as of October 29, 2008
 
 
INVESTOR INFORMATION:
 
Common Stock:
Common Stock of Prudential Financial, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PRU.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Loans
September 30, 2008
($ millions)
 
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
 
 
In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $5.872 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of September 30, 2008 were $1.967 billion of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities.
 
 
Excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $275 million and fair value of $257 million. Based on amortized cost, 74% of these securities have credit ratings of AAA, 6% have A credit ratings, and the remaining 20% have credit ratings of BBB or below. As of September 30, 2008, included within these asset-backed securities are securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages with amortized cost and fair value of $5 million, all of which have AAA credit ratings, with $4 million in the 2006 vintage and $1 million in the 2003 vintage. Also included are collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost of $39 million and fair value of $33 million, with none secured by sub-prime mortgages. Also excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $1 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contract holders. An additional $283 million of asset-backed securities as of September 30, 2008 are classified as other trading, including $28 million held outside the general account, 90% of which have credit ratings of AAA and 10% of which have credit ratings of BB, and $255 million included in our general account, 79% of which have credit ratings of A or above and the remaining 21% virtually all have BBB credit ratings.
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of September 30, 2008, based on amortized cost, 98% of the general account residential mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AA or above. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $51 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining 2% of residential mortgage-backed securities; and all have credit ratings of A or above.
Excluded from the above are residential mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost and fair value of $676 million, all of which have AAA credit ratings. Also excluded from the above are $637 million of residential mortgage-backed securities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and carried at fair value, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contract holders.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Loans
September 30, 2008
($ millions)
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
 
 
Excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $28 million and fair value of $27 million, 74% of which have credit ratings of AA or better and the remaining 26% have credit ratings of BB and below. Also excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $2.4 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contract holders. An additional $1 million of commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account as of September 30, 2008 are classified as other trading, all of which have AAA credit ratings.
(d) Supplemental information for commercial loans:
 
 
As of September 30, 2008, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of general account investments in commercial loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 57% and 1.91 times, respectively.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Loans
September 30, 2008
($ millions)
 
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
 
 
In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $4.881 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business as of September 30, 2008 were $1.947 billion of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities.
 
 
Excluded from the table above are $17 million of asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, all of which have BBB credit ratings as of September 30, 2008.
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of September 30, 2008, based on amortized cost, 85% of the residential mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AAA. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $150 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining 15% of residential mortgage-backed securities and all have credit ratings of AAA.
 
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Loans
September 30, 2008
($ millions)
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
 
 
(d) Supplemental information for commercial loans:
 
 
As of September 30, 2008, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of general account investments in commercial loans attributable to the Closed Block Business was 50% and 1.96 times, respectively.


