FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20080430161134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.0, a news release announcing first quarter 2008 results.
See also Item 7.01 below, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
 
 
 
As of March 31, 2008, on an amortized cost basis, $1.105 billion, or 2% of fixed maturity investments attributable to the Closed Block Business were supported by bond insurance. As of March 31, 2008, 99% of these investments had credit ratings of A or higher, reflecting the credit quality of the monoline bond insurer. Management estimates, taking into account the structure and credit quality of the underlying investments and giving no effect to the support of these securities by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, that 88% of the $1.105 billion total (based upon amortized cost) would have investment grade credit ratings. Based on amortized cost, $0.814 billion of the $1.105 billion of securities supported by bond insurance were asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, $0.168 billion were other asset-backed securities, and $0.123 billion were municipal bonds. Management estimates that 85% of the asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, 94% of the other asset-backed securities, and all of the municipal bonds would have investment grade credit ratings giving no effect to the support of these securities by guarantees from monoline bond insurers. As of March 31, 2008, the bond insurance is provided by five insurance companies, with no company representing more than 34% of the overall amortized cost of the securities supported by bond insurance attributable to the Closed Block Business.
 
For the quarter ended March 31, 2008, the commercial mortgage securitization operations had a pre-tax net loss of $107 million, which is included in GAAP pre-tax income from continuing operations and net income but, as indicated above, is excluded from adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses. The classification of results for the commercial mortgage securitization operations as a divested business has been given effect for current and historical results, as shown in the schedule below.
Adjusted operating income differs from net income and income from continuing operations determined in accordance with GAAP but is the financial measure that the Company uses to analyze the operations of each segment in managing its Financial Services Business. See note (1) to the schedule below.
 
As stated above, adjusted operating income differs from net income and income from continuing operations determined in accordance with GAAP but is the financial measure that the Company uses to analyze the operations of each segment in managing its Financial Services Businesses. The Company views adjusted operating income under the amended definition as a more meaningful presentation of its results for purposes of analyzing the operating performance of, and allocating resources to, its business segments, as the amended definition presents the results of these investments on a basis generally consistent with similar investments held directly within the general account portfolio. Under GAAP, the Company accounts for these investments as available for sale securities containing embedded derivatives that are marked to market and included in current period earnings on a GAAP basis through "Realized investment gains (losses), net" based upon the change in value of the underlying portfolio. Prior to this amendment, adjusted operating income included cumulative losses on the embedded derivatives and recoveries of such losses in the period in which they occurred, while cumulative net gains on the embedded derivatives were deferred and amortized into adjusted operating income over the remaining life of the notes. Under the amended definition, adjusted operating income excludes the mark to market adjustment on the embedded derivatives included in "Realized investment gains (losses), net." Accounting for these investments under GAAP has not been changed. Adjusted operating income results for earlier periods have been revised to conform to the amended definition.
For the quarter ended March 31, 2008, the mark to market adjustment on the embedded derivatives within these investments resulted in pre-tax losses of $208 million, which are included in GAAP pre-tax income from continuing operations and net income but, as indicated above, are excluded from adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income for current and historical periods, giving effect to the amended definition, is shown in the schedule below.
 
The following schedule shows the effect on results for the periods indicated of the matters described above:
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 30, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today reported net income for its Financial Services Businesses of $77 million (20 cents per Common share) for the first quarter of 2008, compared to $1.025 billion ($2.18 per Common share) for the year-ago quarter. After-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses was $729 million ($1.65 per Common share) for the first quarter of 2008, compared to $860 million ($1.83 per Common share) for the first quarter of 2007. Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure as discussed below.
NEWARK, N.J. 
"Unfavorable financial market conditions adversely affected our results this quarter. These conditions had a negative effect on market values in our investment portfolio as well as on the operating results of some of our businesses. We are not satisfied with these results. Nevertheless, we are confident that our strong balance sheet and diversified mix of domestic and international businesses position us well to manage through the challenging current environment and to achieve sustainable results consistent with our long-term goals," said Chief Executive Officer and Chairmanelect John Strangfeld.
"Considering our first quarter results and current financial market conditions, including equity market levels, interest rates, and credit spreads, we continue to believe that Prudential Financial will achieve Common Stock earnings per share for 2008 in the range of $7.50 to $7.80 based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses. This expectation assumes appreciation in the S&P 500 index of 2% per quarter for the balance of the year," Strangfeld said. The 2008 expectation is subject to change if this assumption is not realized and as discussed under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures" below.
Adjusted operating income is not calculated under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Information regarding adjusted operating income, a non-GAAP measure, including
 
Page 2
 
information on an amendment to the definition of adjusted operating income, is discussed later in this press release under "Financial Services Businesses" and "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures," and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the most comparable GAAP measure is provided in the tables that accompany this release.
Financial Services Businesses
Prudential Financial's Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of its Financial Services Businesses, which consist of its Insurance, Investment, and International Insurance and Investments divisions and its Corporate and Other operations.
The Asset Management segment's commercial mortgage securitization operations, which had a pre-tax loss of $107 million for the first quarter of 2008, have been classified as a "divested business" and excluded from adjusted operating income for all periods presented, as a result of the Company's decision to exit these operations. In addition, effective for first quarter 2008 reporting, the company has amended its definition of adjusted operating income as it relates to certain externally managed investments in the European market. Under GAAP, the Company accounts for these investments as available-for-sale securities containing embedded derivatives that are marked to market within "Realized investment gains (losses), net" based upon the change in value of the underlying portfolio. Prior to this amendment, adjusted operating income included cumulative mark-to-market losses and recoveries of such losses in the period in which they occurred, while cumulative net gains on the embedded derivatives were deferred and amortized into adjusted operating income over the remaining life of the notes. Under the amended definition, adjusted operating income excludes the mark-to-market adjustments on the embedded derivatives, amounting to a pre-tax loss of $208 million for the first quarter of 2008, which are included in net income on a GAAP basis within "Realized investment gains (losses), net." The Company views adjusted operating income under the amended definition as a more meaningful presentation of its results for purposes of analyzing the operating performance of its business segments, as the amended definition presents the results of these investments on a basis generally consistent with similar investments held directly within the general account portfolio. Accounting for these investments under GAAP has not been changed. Adjusted operating income results for earlier periods have been revised to conform to the amended definition.
 
Page 3
 
In the following business-level discussion, adjusted operating income refers to pre-tax results.
The reported adjusted operating income of $301 million for the first quarter of 2008, compared to $318 million in the year-ago quarter. Our Individual Life segment reported adjusted operating income of $96 million for the current quarter, compared to $101 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results included higher net amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, reflecting less favorable separate account performance than that of the year-ago quarter. The greater net amortization in the current quarter, together with lower revenues related to separate account values and modestly higher expenses, essentially offset more favorable mortality experience. Our Individual Annuities segment reported adjusted operating income of $115 million in the current quarter, compared to $166 million in the year-ago quarter. Less favorable results from mark-to-market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with living benefits, after related amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, contributed $24 million to the decrease in adjusted operating income, reflecting net costs of $17 million in the current quarter primarily due to financial market conditions compared to a net benefit of $7 million in the year-ago quarter. In addition, current quarter results reflected greater amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and higher costs for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits, resulting from less favorable than expected experience. Our Group Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $90 million in the current quarter, an increase of $39 million from the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include a $20 million benefit from a cumulative adjustment of premiums for earlier periods on a large group life insurance case. The remainder of the increase resulted primarily from more favorable group disability results.
Insurance division
The reported adjusted operating income of $287 million for the first quarter of 2008, compared to $420 million in the year-ago quarter. The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $124 million for the current quarter, compared to $148 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter adjusted operating income reflected higher expenses, including costs associated with the retirement business acquired from Union Bank of California in December 2007 which is being integrated onto the Company's processing platform, as
Investment division
 
Page 4
 
well as less favorable investment results than the year-ago quarter. The Asset Management segment reported adjusted operating income of $119 million for the current quarter, compared to $175 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease came primarily from less favorable results from the segment's proprietary investing business, which included current quarter losses of approximately $30 million from changes in market value of a fixed income investment fund compared to income of $20 million from corresponding market value changes in the year-ago quarter. The decline in results from the proprietary investing business, together with higher expenses, more than offset a greater contribution to current quarter results from performance-based fees, primarily related to institutional real estate funds, and increased asset management fees. Our Financial Advisory segment reported adjusted operating income of $44 million for the current quarter, compared to $97 million for the year-ago quarter. The Financial Advisory segment reflects our retail securities brokerage joint venture with Wachovia. On January 1, 2008, Wachovia combined the acquired retail securities brokerage business of A.G. Edwards, Inc. with the joint venture. The Company's initial share of the earnings of the joint venture and transition costs, subsequent to this combination, is based on a diluted ownership level which is currently being finalized. Based on our estimate of the level of ownership, our share of the venture resulted in adjusted operating income of $51 million, after absorption of $46 million of transition costs. For the year-ago quarter, our 38% share of the venture resulted in adjusted operating income of $111 million. In addition to our share of the venture's results, the Financial Advisory segment's results for the current quarter include expenses of $7 million related to obligations and costs we retained in connection with the contributed businesses primarily for litigation and regulatory matters, while results for the year-ago quarter include $14 million of such costs.
The reported adjusted operating income of $439 million for the first quarter of 2008, compared to $474 million in the year-ago quarter. The International Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $413 million for the current quarter, essentially unchanged from $412 million for the year-ago quarter. The segment's Life Planner insurance operations reported adjusted operating income of $285 million for the current quarter, an increase of $16 million from the year-ago quarter, reflecting continued
International Insurance and Investments division
 
Page 5
 
business growth. The segment's Gibraltar Life operations reported adjusted operating income of $128 million for the current quarter, compared to $143 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease reflected a less favorable level of policy benefits and expenses in the current quarter. Foreign currency exchange rates did not have a significant effect on the comparison of results for the segment's international insurance businesses due to the company's currency hedging programs. The International Investments segment reported adjusted operating income of $26 million for the current quarter, compared to $62 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results reflected less favorable results from the segment's trading operations, including a $19 million charge for a credit loss relating to a brokerage client. Results for the current quarter also reflected a lower contribution from the segment's asset management businesses, which benefited in the year-ago quarter from fees associated with strong mutual fund sales in Korea as well as income on an equity-related investment.
resulted in a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $35 million in the first quarter of 2008, compared to adjusted operating income of $9 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results reflect a lower contribution from investment income, net of interest expense, together with an increased loss from the company's real estate and relocation business.
Corporate and Other operations
amounted to $631 billion at March 31, 2008, compared to $630 billion a year earlier and $648 billion at December 31, 2007. Assets under management at March 31, 2007 included $26 billion related to investments in operating joint ventures which were sold by the company during the third quarter of 2007.
Assets under management
of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $77 million for the first quarter of 2008, compared to $1.025 billion in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter net income includes $678 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments. Net realized investment losses for the current quarter include $208 million representing decreases in market value of certain externally managed investments in the European market, which amounts are excluded from adjusted operating income, consistent with the amended definition of adjusted operating income adopted for first quarter 2008 reporting as discussed above. Net realized
Net income
 
Page 6
 
investment losses in the current quarter include $460 million of losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities. The losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities reflect $411 million on fixed maturity investments, including $290 million relating to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, and $48 million of impairments on equity securities. The Company estimates that approximately $46 million of the $290 million impairments recorded on asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages represent credit-related losses, based on lower expected collection of cash flows.
At March 31, 2008, gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $3.574 billion, including $3.143 billion on investment-grade securities. Gross unrealized losses include $1.146 billion related to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses at March 31, 2008 include $1.107 billion of declines in value of 20% or more of amortized cost, of which $247 million represents such declines in value for three months or more. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $1.970 billion at year-end 2007. Net unrealized gains on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $30 million at March 31, 2008 and $1.332 billion at December 31, 2007.
Net income for the current quarter also reflects pre-tax decreases of $262 million in recorded asset values and $200 million in recorded liabilities representing changes in value which will ultimately accrue to contractholders. These changes primarily represent interest rate related mark-to-market adjustments. Net income for the current quarter includes $112 million of pre-tax losses from divested businesses, including $107 million relating to the Asset Management segment's commercial mortgage securitization operations which the Company has decided to exit as discussed above.
Net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the year-ago quarter included $141 million of pre-tax net realized investment gains and related charges and adjustments, increases of $82 million in recorded assets and $62 million in recorded liabilities for which changes in value will ultimately accrue to contractholders, and income of $28 million from divested businesses, in each case before income taxes. In addition, net income for the year-ago quarter included income from discontinued operations of $37 million (net of related taxes).
 
Page 7
 
Closed Block Business
Prudential's Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of its Closed Block Business.
The Closed Block Business includes our in-force participating life insurance and annuity policies, and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies.
The Closed Block Business reported a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $26 million for the first quarter of 2008, compared to income from continuing operations before income taxes of $137 million for the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include pre-tax net realized investment losses of $110 million, while results for the year-ago quarter included pre-tax net realized investment gains of $207 million. Net realized investment losses in the current quarter include $230 million of losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities, which were partially offset by gains on sales of fixed maturity investments. The Closed Block Business reported a net loss for the first quarter of 2008 of $8 million, compared to net income of $95 million for the year-ago quarter.
Consolidated Results
There is no legal separation of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock are both common stockholders of Prudential Financial, Inc.
On a consolidated basis, which includes the results of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, Prudential Financial, Inc. reported net income of $69 million for the first quarter of 2008, compared to $1.120 billion for the year-ago quarter.
 
Page 8
 
Share Repurchases and Issuance
During the first quarter of 2008, the company acquired 11.4 million shares of its Common Stock, at a total cost of $869 million. From the commencement of share repurchases in May 2002, through March 31, 2008, the company has acquired 195.8 million shares of its Common Stock at a total cost of $11.757 billion.
Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures
Certain of the statements included in this release, including (but not limited to) those in the third paragraph hereof, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U. S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "includes," "plans," "assumes," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "should," "will," "shall," or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) general economic, market and political conditions, including the performance and fluctuations of fixed income, equity, real estate, and other financial markets; (2) interest rate fluctuations; (3) reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims; (4) differences between actual experience regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, surrender experience, interest rates or market returns and the assumptions we use in pricing our products, establishing liabilities and reserves or for other purposes; (5) changes in our assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, valuation of business acquired or goodwill; (6) changes in our claims-paying or credit ratings; (7) investment losses and defaults; (8) competition in our product lines and for personnel; (9) changes in tax law; (10) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations; (11) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; (12) regulatory
 
Page 9
 
or legislative changes; (13) adverse determinations in litigation or regulatory matters and our exposure to contingent liabilities, including in connection with our divestiture or winding down of businesses; (14) domestic or international military actions, natural or man-made disasters including terrorist activities or pandemic disease, or other events resulting in catastrophic loss of life; (15) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures in identifying, monitoring and managing risks; (16) effects of acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including possible difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions; (17) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; (18) changes in assumptions for retirement expense; (19) Prudential Financial, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and continue share repurchases, and the applicable regulatory restrictions on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends or distributions; and (20) risks due to the lack of legal separation between our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and is under no obligation, to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net," as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments. A significant element of realized investment gains and losses are impairments and credit-related and interest rate-related gains and losses. Impairments and losses from sales of credit-impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles, can vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses, such as interest rate-related gains or losses, is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities as well as our tax profile. Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income also excludes investment gains and losses on trading
 
Page 10
 
account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes, because these recorded changes in asset and liability values will ultimately accrue to contractholders. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. In addition, adjusted operating income excludes the results of divested businesses, which are not relevant to our ongoing operations. Discontinued operations, which is presented as a separate component of net income under GAAP, is also excluded from adjusted operating income.
We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of the results of operations of the Financial Services Businesses by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. However, adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and the excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. The schedules accompanying this release provide a reconciliation of adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses to income from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP. The Current Report on Form 8-K furnished by the Company to the SEC with this release shows the effect on previously reported adjusted operating income of the reclassification of the Company's commercial mortgage securitization operations as a "divested business" and the amendment of the Company's definition of adjusted operating income discussed above.
Our expectation of Common Stock earnings per share is based on after-tax adjusted operating income. Because we do not predict future realized investment gains / losses or recorded changes in asset and liability values that will ultimately accrue to contractholders, we cannot provide a measure of our Common Stock earnings per share expectation based on income from continuing operations of the Financial Services Businesses, which is the GAAP measure most comparable to adjusted operating income.
The information referred to above, as well as the risks of our businesses described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, should be considered by readers when reviewing forward-looking statements contained in this release. Additional historical information relating to our financial performance is located on our Web site at .
www.investor.prudential.com
 
Page 11
 
Earnings Conference Call
Members of Prudential's senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, May 1, 2008 at 11 a.m. ET, to discuss with the investment community the company's first quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the company's Investor Relations Web site at: . Please log on fifteen minutes early in the event necessary software needs to be downloaded. The call will remain on the Investor Relations Web site for replay through May 16. Institutional investors, analysts, and other members of the professional financial community are invited to listen to the call and participate in Q&A by dialing (877) 777-1971 (domestic callers) or (612) 332-0226 (international callers). All others are encouraged to dial into the conference call in listen-only mode, using the same numbers. To listen to a replay of the conference call starting at 2:00 p.m. on May 1, through May 8, dial (800) 475-6701 (domestic callers) or (320) 365-3844 (international callers). The access code for the replay is 904642.
www.investor.prudential.com
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $631 billion of assets under management as of March 31, 2008, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Leveraging its heritage of life insurance and asset management expertise, Prudential is focused on helping more than 50 million individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth. The company's well-known Rock symbol is an icon of strength, stability, expertise and innovation that has stood the test of time. Prudential's businesses offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. For more information, please visit .
www.prudential.com
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and are adjusted for the items above as well.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
April 30, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality (3):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
1. Adjusted operating income before income taxes:
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses that excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net", as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities; change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; results of divested businesses and discontinued operations; and the related tax effects thereof. Adjusted operating income includes equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and the related tax effects thereof. Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and are adjusted for the items above as well. Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
2. After-tax adjusted operating income:
Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes.
3. Assets Under Management:
Fair market value or account value of assets which Prudential manages directly in proprietary products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, in separate accounts, wrap-fee products and the general account, and assets invested in investment options included in the Company's products that are managed by third party sub-managers (i.e., the non-proprietary investment options in the Company's products).
4. Attributed Equity:
Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business.
5. Book value per share of Common Stock:
Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by the number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis.
6. Borrowings - Capital Debt:
Borrowings that are or will be used for capital requirements at Prudential Financial, Inc as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial, Inc., and subsidiary borrowings, utilized for capital requirements.
7. Borrowings - Investment Related:
Debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate, and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences.
8. Borrowings - Securities Business Related:
Debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker-dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations including our discontinued commercial mortgage conduit related activities.
9. Borrowings - Specified Other Businesses:
Borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, the individual annuity business, real estate franchises, and relocation services.
10. Client Assets:
Fair market value of assets in client accounts of International brokerage operations, Prudential Bank and mortgage loan servicing business, that are not included in Assets Under Management. Prudential does not receive a management or administrative fee on these assets, but may receive a fee for executing trades, custody or recordkeeping services.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
11. Earned Premiums:
The portion of a premium, net of any amount ceded, that represents coverage already provided or that belongs to the insurer based on the part of the policy period that has passed.
12. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock:
Net income for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments modify earnings available to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. Earnings per share of Common Stock based on adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses reflects these adjustments as well.
13. Full Service:
The Full Service line of business provides retirement plan products and services to public, private and not-for-profit organizations. This business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, participant education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investment funds. This business mainly services defined contribution and defined benefit plans; non-qualified plans are also serviced. For clients with both defined contribution and defined benefit plans, integrated recordkeeping services are available. For participants leaving these plans, a range of rollover products are provided through a broker-dealer bank.
14. Full Service Stable Value:
Our Full Service Stable Value products represent fixed rate options on investment funds offered to customers. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time. Upon termination these products repay account balances at market value immediately or may be liquidated at book value over time. Substantially all of these products are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual resets giving effect to previous investment experience. These products are issued through the general account, separate accounts or client-owned trusts. Profits from partially participating general account products result from the spread between the rate of return on investment assets and the interest rates credited to the customer, less expenses. For fully participating products, generally subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee, we earn fee income.
15. General Account:
Invested assets and policyholder liabilities and reserves for which the Company bears the investment risk. Excludes assets recognized for statutory purposes that are specifically allocated to a separate account. General account assets also include assets of the parent company, Prudential Financial, Inc.
16. Gibraltar Life Advisors:
Insurance representatives for Gibraltar Life.
17. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Administrative Operating Expense Ratios:
Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income.
18. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Benefits Ratios:
Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income.
19. Individual Annuity Account Values in General Account and Separate Account:
Amounts represent the breakdown of invested customer funds in annuities either written or reinsured by the Company.
20. Individual Life Insurance Sales:
Scheduled premiums from new sales on an annualized basis and first year excess premiums and deposits on a cash-received basis.
21. Insurance and Annuity Benefits:
Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, and losses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
22. International Life Planners:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations outside the United States, excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors. Excludes Life Planners associated with discontinued Philippine operations.
23. New annualized premiums:
Premiums from new sales that are expected to be collected over a one year period. Group insurance new annualized premiums exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage issued under our Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance contract, and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts. Group insurance new annualized premiums include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. Group disability amounts include long-term care products. Single premium business for the Company's international insurance operations is included in annualized new business premiums based on 10% credit.
24. Non-recourse and Limited-recourse Debt:
Limited and non-recourse borrowing is where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets.
25. Operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income):
Adjusted operating income after-tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits.
An alternative measure to operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income) is return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations). Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) represents income from continuing operations after-tax as determined in accordance with GAAP (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average total attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses. Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) is 1.58% for the three months ended March 31, 2008, 14.43% for the three months ended December 31, 2007, 16.14% for the three months ended September 30, 2007, 15.97% for the three months ended June 30, 2007, and 18.25% for the three months ended March 31, 2007.
26. Policy Persistency - Group Insurance:
Percentage of the premiums in force at the end of the prior year that are still in force at the end of the period (excluding Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Prudential Employee Benefit Plan).
27. Policy Persistency - International Insurance:
13 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their second policy year. 25 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their third policy year.
28. Prudential Agents:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations in the United States.
29. Prudential Agent productivity:
Commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents under contract for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. Excludes
commissions on new sales by Prudential Agents hired or departed during the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
30. Ratio of capital debt to total capitalization:
For purposes of this ratio, we measure "debt" as borrowings for capital debt, and we measure "total capitalization" as the sum of equity, excluding
accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments, pension and postretirement benefits and capital debt.
31. Separate Accounts:
Assets of our insurance companies allocated under certain policies and contracts that are segregated from the general account and other separate accounts. The policyholder or contractholder predominantly bears the risk of investments held in a separate account.
32. Wrap-Fee Products:
Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the customer are generally invested in other
investment products such as mutual funds.
 
 
RATINGS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
INSURANCE CLAIMS PAYING RATINGS
as of April 30, 2008
 
 
INVESTOR INFORMATION:
 
Common Stock:
Common Stock of Prudential Financial, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PRU.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Loans
March 31, 2008
($ millions)
 
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
 
 
 
 
Excluded from the table above are available for sale asset-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $258 million and fair value of $244 million. Based on amortized cost, 75% of these securities have credit ratings of AAA and the remaining 25% have credit ratings of BBB or below. As of March 31, 2008, included within these asset-backed securities are securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages with amortized cost and fair value of $9 million, all of which have AAA credit ratings, with $8 million in the 2006 vintage and $1 million in the 2003 vintage. Also included are collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost of $49 million and fair value of $41 million, with none secured by sub-prime mortgages. Also excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $1.2 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contract holders. An additional $47 million of asset-backed securities as of March 31, 2008 are classified as other trading, including $15 million held outside the general account with AAA credit ratings, and $32 million included in our general account, 31% of which have credit ratings of AAA and the remaining 69% of which have BBB credit ratings.
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of March 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, 98% of the general account available for sale residential mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AAA. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $58 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining 2% of residential mortgage-backed securities; all have credit ratings of A or above.
Excluded from the table above are available for sale residential mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $602 million ($611 million fair value), all of which have AAA credit ratings. Also excluded from the table above are $965 million of residential mortgage-backed securities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and carried at fair value, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contract holders.
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
 
 
Excluded from the table above are available for sale commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $12 million and fair value of $11 million, 41% of which have credit ratings of AAA and the remaining 59% have credit ratings of BB and below. Also excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $2.5 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contract holders. An additional $445 million of commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account as of March 31, 2008 are classified as other trading, of which 83% have AAA credit ratings, 7% have AA credit ratings, 7% have A credit ratings, and the remaining 3% have BBB credit ratings.
(d) Supplemental information for commercial loans:
 
 
As of March 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of general account investment in commercial loans attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 52% and 1.8 times, respectively.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Loans
March 31, 2008
($ millions)
 
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
 
 
 
 
Excluded from the table above are $17 million of asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, all of which have BBB credit ratings as of March 31, 2008.
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of March 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, 84% of the general account available for sale residential mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AAA. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $3 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining 16% of residential mortgage-backed securities and all have credit ratings of AAA.
 
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Loans
March 31, 2008
($ millions)
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
 
 
(d) Supplemental information for commercial loans:
 
 
As of March 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of general account investment in commercial loans attributable to the Closed Block Business was 44% and 1.86 times, respectively.

Exhibit 99.3
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Reconciliation between adjusted operating income and the comparable GAAP measure
First Quarter 2008
 


