FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20090805161511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.0, a news release announcing second quarter 2009 results.
See also Item 7.01 below, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
Parent Company Short-term Investments and Borrowings
As of June 30, 2009, the parent holding company, Prudential Financial, had cash and short-term investments of $4.735 billion, which included $701 million of subsidiary funds that were invested short-term with Prudential Financial as part of our intercompany liquidity program. The short-term investments comprise $1.620 billion of parent holding company cash and short-term investments and consist primarily of government agency securities and money market funds.
As of June 30, 2009, parent company short-term borrowings amounted to $647 million. This amount includes $505 million of outstanding commercial paper, $87 million principal amount of convertible debt securities, and $55 million current portion of long-term debt.
Prudential Financial's commercial paper is currently rated A-1, P-2, and F2 by Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch, respectively. The rating from Fitch currently has a negative outlook. Prudential Financial's outstanding commercial paper as of June 30, 2009 had a weighted average maturity of 10 days of which 40% was overnight. The vast majority of Prudential Financial's outstanding commercial paper proceeds were either held in cash or invested in short-term financial instruments. As of June 30, 2009, Prudential Financial had no commercial paper outstanding under the Commercial Paper Funding Facility ("CPFF") sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as Prudential Financial is not able to access the CPFF based on its current ratings.
Prudential Funding, LLC Commercial Paper Program
As of June 30, 2009, Prudential Funding, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, had outstanding commercial paper borrowings of $1.718 billion, of which $577 million of the proceeds were held in cash and cash equivalents, while the remaining $1.141 billion was primarily utilized to fund short-term cash flow timing mismatches and the working capital needs of our affiliates. Prudential Funding's outstanding commercial paper as of June 30, 2009, had a weighted average maturity of 38 days of which 11% was overnight.
Prudential Funding's commercial paper is currently rated A-1+, P-1, and F1 by Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch, respectively. The rating from Moody's is currently on review for a possible downgrade and the Fitch rating has a negative outlook. Based on these ratings, Prudential Funding continues to be able to participate in the CPFF. The maximum amount of commercial paper that Prudential Funding is eligible to issue under the CPFF is $9.815 billion, less the outstanding amount of any non-CPFF commercial paper at any applicable time. As of June 30, 2009, Prudential Funding had no commercial paper outstanding under the CPFF. Access to the CPFF for the issuance of new commercial paper is scheduled to terminate on February 1, 2010, unless such date is extended by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Asset-based Financing
As of June 30, 2009, Prudential's Financial Services Businesses had liabilities totaling $5.929 billion under asset-based financing programs, including $3.467 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase, $2.233 billion representing cash collateral for loaned securities and $229 million of securities sold but not yet purchased. Under these
programs, the company loans securities in return for cash collateral which is primarily used to purchase securities for the short-term spread portfolios in our domestic insurance entities. These portfolios comprise cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and fixed maturities with a weighted average life at the time of purchase of two years or less. Of the total $5.929 billion, $2.795 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder has maturities ranging from 2 days to 3 months with a weighted average maturity of 34 days. As of June 30, 2009, the asset-based financing programs represented approximately 3.2% of total investments of $184.1 billion for the Financial Services Businesses.
As of June 30, 2009, Prudential's Closed Block Business had liabilities totaling $5.130 billion under such programs, including $3.701 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase and $1.429 billion representing cash collateral for loaned securities. Of the total $5.130 billion, $2.369 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder has maturities ranging from 2 days to 3 months with a weighted average maturity of 31 days. As of June 30, 2009, the asset-based financing programs represented approximately 8.6% of total investments of $59.6 billion for the Closed Block Business.
Ratings-Driven Contingencies
A downgrade in the credit or financial strength (i.e., claims-paying) ratings of Prudential Financial or its rated subsidiaries could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements and/or hurt our relationships with creditors or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively effecting our profitability, liquidity and/or capital.
Additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. A ratings downgrade of three ratings levels from the ratings levels as of June 30, 2009 would result in estimated additional collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $200 million as of June 30, 2009. The amount of collateral required to be posted for derivative agreements is also dependent on the fair value of the derivative positions as of the balance sheet date. In addition, a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best to "A-" for our domestic life insurance companies would require Prudential Insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.4 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to an acquired business, that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $70 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. We believe that the posting of such collateral would not be a material liquidity event for Prudential Insurance.
In addition, agreements in connection with capital management activities for our universal life insurance products would require us to post cash collateral based on tests that consider the level of 10-year credit default swap spreads on Prudential Financial's senior debt. As of June 30, 2009, when estimates of Prudential Financial's 10-year credit default swap spreads were approximately 490 basis points, we had posted $53 million of collateral under this agreement.
Federal Home Loan Bank of New York Facility
Prudential Insurance has been a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, or FHLBNY, since June 2008. Membership allows Prudential Insurance to participate in FHLBNY's product line of financial services, including collateralized advances, collateralized funding agreements and general asset/liability management that can be used for liquidity management and as an alternative source of funding. Under FHLBNY guidelines, borrowings by its members are at the discretion of the FHLBNY.
The FHLBNY requires Prudential Insurance to pledge qualifying mortgage-related assets or U.S. Treasury securities as collateral for all borrowings. On May 8, 2009, the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, or NJDOBI revised its prior guidance to increase the maximum amount of qualifying assets that Prudential Insurance may pledge as collateral to the FHLBNY from 5% to 7% of its prior year-end statutory net admitted assets exclusive of separate account assets; however, this limitation resets to 5% on December 31, 2010 unless extended by NJDOBI. Based on its statutory net admitted assets as of December 31, 2008, the 7% limitation equates to a maximum amount of pledged assets of $10.5 billion and an estimated maximum borrowing capacity, after taking into account applicable required collateralization levels and required purchases of activity based FHLBNY stock, of approximately $9.0 billion. However, the ability to borrow from the FHLBNY is subject to the availability and maintenance of qualifying assets at Prudential Insurance, and there is no assurance that Prudential Insurance will have sufficient qualifying assets available to it in order to access the increased capacity in full at any particular time. Also, the revised guidance from NJDOBI limits the aggregate amount of assets Prudential Insurance may pledge for all
loans, including borrowings from the FHLBNY, to 10% of its prior year-end statutory net admitted assets exclusive of separate account assets; however, this limitation excludes certain activities, such as the asset-based financing transactions described above.
As of June 30, 2009, Prudential Insurance had total outstanding borrowings of $3.5 billion that is comprised of collateralized advances, of which $1.0 billion is reflected in "Short-term debt" and $1.0 billion is reflected in "Long-term debt," as well as $1.5 billion of collateralized funding agreements that are reflected in "Policyholders' account balances."
Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities
As of June 30, 2009, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $4.34 billion. These facilities are available to each of the borrowers, up to the aggregate committed credit, to be used for general corporate purposes. This amount includes a $1.94 billion 5-year credit facility that expires in May 2012, which includes 20 financial institutions, and an additional $2.4 billion credit facility, of which $200 million expires in December 2011 and $2.2 billion expires in December 2012, which includes 18 financial institutions.
We maintain these facilities primarily as back up liquidity lines for our commercial paper programs, and there were no outstanding borrowings under either facility as of June 30, 2009. Any borrowings made under these outstanding facilities would mature no later than the respective expiration dates of the facilities and would bear interest at the rates set forth in each facility agreement. Within each facility, no single financial institution has more than 15% of the total committed credit.
Our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on the continued satisfaction of customary conditions, including the maintenance at all times by Prudential Insurance of total adjusted capital of at least $5.5 billion based on statutory accounting principles prescribed under New Jersey law and Prudential Financial's maintenance of consolidated net worth of at least $12.5 billion, which for this purpose is based on U.S. GAAP stockholders' equity, excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments. Our ability to borrow under these facilities is not contingent on our credit ratings or subject to material adverse change clauses. As of June 30, 2009, Prudential Insurance's total adjusted capital and Prudential Financial's consolidated U.S. GAAP stockholders' equity, excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments, exceeded the minimum amounts required to borrow under these facilities. We also use uncommitted lines of credit from financial institutions.
Credit Derivative Activities
The company has sold credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments.
In a credit derivative we sell credit protection on an identified name, or a basket of names in a first to default structure, and in return receive a quarterly premium. With single name credit default derivatives, this premium or credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the referenced name's public fixed maturity cash instruments and swap rates, at the time the agreement is executed. With first-to-default baskets, because of the additional credit risk inherent in a basket of named credits, the premium generally corresponds to a high proportion of the sum of the credit spreads of the names in the basket. If there is an event of default by the referenced name or one of the referenced names in a basket, as defined by the agreement, then we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced defaulted security or similar security. Subsequent defaults on the remaining names within such instruments require no further payment to counterparties.
The majority of referenced names in the credit derivatives where we have sold credit protection, as well as all the counterparties to these agreements, are investment grade credit quality and our credit derivatives generally have maturities of five years or less. The outstanding notional amounts and fair values of credit derivative contracts where we have sold credit protection as of June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008 are presented below:
 
In addition to selling credit protection, we have purchased credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio, including exposures relating to certain guarantees from monoline bond insurers.
Substantially all of the counterparties from which the company has purchased credit protection are investment grade credit quality. The outstanding notional amounts and fair values of credit derivative contracts where we have purchased credit protection as of June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008 are presented below:
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 5, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today reported net income of its Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $538 million ($1.25 per Common share) for the second quarter of 2009, compared to $566 million ($1.32 per Common share) for the year-ago quarter. After-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses was $817 million ($1.88 per Common share) for the second quarter of 2009, compared to $845 million ($1.96 per Common share) for the second quarter of 2008. Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure as discussed below.
NEWARK, N.J. 
For the first half of 2009, net income for the Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. amounted to $533 million ($1.28 per Common share) compared to $634 million ($1.49 per Common share) for the first half of 2008. First half 2009 after-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $1.253 billion ($2.94 per Common share), compared to $1.536 billion ($3.52 per Common share) for the first half of 2008.
"Our current quarter results reflect improvements in financial markets, together with our strengthening competitive position. Sales and net flows were solid across the board in the second quarter and first half. Variable annuity sales and flows, and individual life sales, were especially strong this quarter. We are confident that we are gaining ground as clients look to Prudential as a partner with the strength to stand behind promises of financial security over a lifetime and the innovative solutions to grow and protect wealth through market cycles. While the broad economy still holds challenges and continues to negatively affect values in our investment portfolio, we've bolstered our capital position through recent public issues of equity and long-term debt, adding to our strength to withstand severe stress environments while enhancing our position to take advantage of opportunities for business growth," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld.
 
Page 3
 
"Considering current financial market conditions, including equity market levels, interest rates and credit spreads, we believe that Prudential Financial will achieve Common Stock earnings per share for 2009 in the range of $5.00 to $5.20 based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses. This expectation assumes appreciation of 2% per quarter in the S&P 500 index, commencing with its close as of December 31, 2008," Strangfeld said. The 2009 expectation is subject to change if this assumption is not realized and as discussed under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures" below.
Adjusted operating income is not calculated under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Information regarding adjusted operating income, a non-GAAP measure, is discussed later in this press release under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures," and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the most comparable GAAP measure is provided in the tables that accompany this release.
Financial Services Businesses
Prudential Financial's Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of its Financial Services Businesses, which consist of its U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance, and International Insurance and Investments divisions and its Corporate and Other operations.
In the following business-level discussion, adjusted operating income refers to pre-tax results.
The reported adjusted operating income of $564 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared to $485 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division
 
Page 4
 
The Individual Annuities segment reported adjusted operating income of $432 million in the current quarter, compared to $154 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited $274 million from net reductions in reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and $142 million from a net reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs reflecting an updated estimate of profitability for this business. These benefits to results were largely driven by increases in customer account values during the current quarter. Results for the year-ago quarter included a net benefit of $6 million from adjustment of these items to recognize experience in that period. Mark-to-market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with living benefits, after amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, resulted in a net charge of $55 million to current quarter adjusted operating income, which reflects a net charge of $112 million from the required adjustment of embedded derivative liabilities for living benefits to recognize market-based non-performance risk associated with our own credit standing. Results for the year-ago quarter included net charges of $2 million from mark-to-market of these embedded derivatives and related hedge positions. Excluding the effect of the foregoing items, adjusted operating income for the Individual Annuities segment declined $79 million from the year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting lower fees driven by market value declines in customer account values.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $99 million for the current quarter, compared to $141 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results reflect lower fees associated with market value declines in customer account values, as well as less favorable case experience on traditional retirement business. In addition, current quarter results included a net charge of $9 million from the required adjustment of liabilities for contract guarantees to recognize market-based non-performance risk.
The Asset Management segment reported adjusted operating income of $33 million for the current quarter, compared to $190 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease came primarily from unfavorable results from proprietary investing and commercial mortgage activities, and from lower performance-based fees primarily related to institutional real estate funds.
 
Page 5
 
The reported adjusted operating income of $243 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared to $183 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division
The Individual Life segment reported adjusted operating income of $138 million for the current quarter, compared to $103 million in the year-ago quarter. Results benefited from lower net amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other items driven by favorable current quarter separate account performance. In addition, current quarter results reflected more favorable mortality experience than that of the year-ago quarter. Lower fees associated with customer account values, reflecting market value declines from the level of a year earlier, partially offset these items.
The Group Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $105 million in the current quarter, compared to $80 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited from more favorable group life and disability claims experience than in the year-ago quarter.
The reported adjusted operating income of $481 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared to $479 million in the year-ago quarter.
International Insurance and Investments division
The International Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $465 million for the current quarter, an increase of $12 million from the year-ago quarter. The segment's Life Planner insurance operations reported adjusted operating income of $315 million for the current quarter, compared to $286 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results reflected a net benefit of $21 million from refinements due to implementation of a new policy valuation system and expenses related to technology improvements. Excluding these items, adjusted operating income of the Life Planner insurance operations increased $8 million from the year-ago quarter, reflecting continued business growth partially offset by a less favorable level of benefits and expenses. The segment's Gibraltar Life operations reported adjusted operating income of $150
 
Page 6
 
million for the current quarter, compared to $167 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results reflected net charges of $7 million from refinements due to implementation of a new policy valuation system. In addition, current quarter results reflect a less favorable level of benefits and expenses and a lower contribution from investment results than the year-ago quarter. Foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of the Company's currency hedging programs, did not have a significant effect on the comparison of results for the segment's international insurance businesses.
The International Investments segment reported adjusted operating income of $16 million for the current quarter, compared to $26 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease resulted primarily from less favorable results from the segment's Korean asset management operations.
resulted in a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $162 million in the second quarter of 2009, compared to a loss of $20 million in the year-ago quarter. The increased loss came primarily from increased interest expense, net of investment income, reflecting a greater level of capital debt including $1.5 billion of junior subordinated long-term debt securities issued in 2008, and lower earnings from the investment of debt issuance proceeds. The Company's real estate and relocation business reported adjusted operating income of $3 million for the current quarter, compared to a loss of $3 million in the year-ago quarter.
Corporate and Other operations
amounted to $580 billion at June 30, 2009, compared to $638 billion a year earlier and $558 billion at December 31, 2008.
Assets under management
of the Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. amounted to $538 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared to $566 million in the year-ago quarter.
Net income
Current quarter net income includes $877 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments. Net realized investment losses in the current quarter include
 
Page 7
 
$519 million net decreases in market value of derivatives used in the company's investment duration management and hedging programs which were primarily driven by changes in interest rates, and $444 million of losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired investments. The losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities reflect $353 million on fixed maturity investments, including $209 million relating to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, $64 million of impairments on equity securities, and $27 million of impairments on other investments. The foregoing realized investment losses were partially offset by increases in market value of certain externally managed investments in the European market.
At June 30, 2009, gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $7.806 billion, including $5.480 billion on investment-grade securities. Gross unrealized losses include $2.088 billion related to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses at June 30, 2009 include $4.140 billion of declines in value of 20% or more of amortized cost, of which $3.842 billion represents such declines in value for three months or more. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $11.251 billion at year-end 2008. Net unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $4.352 billion at June 30, 2009, compared to $6.567 billion at December 31, 2008.
Net income for the current quarter also reflects pre-tax increases of $686 million in recorded asset values and $347 million in recorded liabilities representing changes in value which are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. These changes primarily represent interest rate related mark-to-market adjustments. Net income for the current quarter also includes $24 million of pre-tax losses from divested businesses, primarily reflecting a $15 million pre-tax loss from the Company's retail securities brokerage joint venture with Wachovia and related costs. On January 1, 2008, Wachovia combined the acquired retail securities brokerage business of A.G. Edwards, Inc. with the joint venture. The Company's estimated share of the results of the joint
 
Page 8
 
venture and transition costs, subsequent to this combination, is based on a diluted ownership level which is currently being finalized. As previously announced, the Company exercised its right under the "lookback" option to put its joint venture interests to Wells Fargo, which acquired Wachovia on December 31, 2008. Under the terms of the joint venture agreements, closing of the put transaction would occur on or about January 1, 2010. The current quarter loss reflects absorption, through our estimated share of joint venture results, of $10 million of transition costs related to Wachovia's acquisition of A. G. Edwards.
In addition, net income for the current quarter includes income from discontinued operations of $21 million (net of related taxes).
Net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the year-ago quarter included $486 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments, decreases of $123 million in recorded assets and $94 million in recorded liabilities for which changes in value are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders, and income of $10 million from divested businesses, in each case before income taxes.
Closed Block Business
Prudential's Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of its Closed Block Business.
The Closed Block Business includes our in-force participating life insurance and annuity policies, and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies.
The Closed Block Business reported a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $586 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared to income from continuing operations
 
Page 9
 
before income taxes of $38 million for the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include pre-tax net realized investment losses of $857 million, while results for the year-ago quarter include net realized investment losses of $348 million. Net realized investment losses in the current quarter include $440 million net decreases in market value of derivatives used in hedging and investment duration management programs which were primarily driven by changes in interest rates, and $387 million of losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities.
The Closed Block Business reported a net loss attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. for the second quarter of 2009 of $375 million, compared to net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $15 million for the year-ago quarter.
For the first half of 2009, the Closed Block Business reported a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $556 million, compared to income from continuing operations before income taxes of $12 million for the first half of 2008. The Closed Block Business reported a net loss attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $356 million for the first half of 2009 and net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $7 million for the first half of 2008.
Consolidated Results
There is no legal separation of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock are both common stockholders of Prudential Financial, Inc.
On a consolidated basis, which includes the results of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, Prudential Financial, Inc. reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $163 million for the second quarter of 2009 compared to $581 million for the year-ago quarter, and reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $177 million for the first half of 2009 and $641 million for the first half of 2008.
 
Page 10
 
Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures
Certain of the statements included in this release including (but not limited to) those in the third paragraph hereof, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U. S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "includes," "plans," "assumes," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "should," "will," "shall," or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) general economic, market and political conditions, including the performance and fluctuations of fixed income, equity, real estate and other financial markets, particularly in light of ongoing severe economic conditions and the severe stress experienced by the global financial markets since the second half of 2007; (2) the availability and cost of external financing for our operations, which has been affected by the stress experienced by the global financial markets; (3) interest rate fluctuations; (4) reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims; (5) differences between actual experience regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, surrender experience, interest rates or market returns and the assumptions we use in pricing our products, establishing liabilities and reserves or for other purposes; (6) changes in our assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, valuation of business acquired or goodwill; (7) changes in our claims-paying or credit ratings; (8) investment losses, defaults and counterparty non-performance; (9) competition in our product lines and for personnel; (10) changes in tax law; (11) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations; (12) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; (13) regulatory or legislative changes, including government actions in response to
 
Page 11
 
the stress experienced by the global financial markets; (14) adverse determinations in litigation or regulatory matters and our exposure to contingent liabilities, including in connection with our divestiture or winding down of businesses; (15) domestic or international military actions, natural or man-made disasters including terrorist activities or pandemic disease, or other events resulting in catastrophic loss of life; (16) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures in identifying, monitoring and managing risks; (17) effects of acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including possible difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions; (18) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; (19) changes in assumptions for retirement expense; (20) Prudential Financial, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends or distributions in light of our ratings objectives and/or applicable regulatory restrictions; and (21) risks due to the lack of legal separation between our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. As noted above, the period since the second half of 2007 has been characterized by extreme adverse market and economic conditions. The foregoing risks are even more pronounced in these unprecedented market and economic conditions. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and is under no obligation, to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net," as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments. A significant element of realized investment gains and losses are impairments and credit-related and interest rate-related gains and losses. Impairments and losses from sales of credit-impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles, can vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses, such as interest rate-related gains or losses, is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities as well as our tax and capital profile.
 
Page 12
 
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities related to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income also excludes investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes, because these recorded changes in asset and liability values are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. In addition, adjusted operating income excludes the results of divested businesses, which are not relevant to our ongoing operations. Discontinued operations, which is presented as a separate component of net income under GAAP, is also excluded from adjusted operating income.
We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of the results of operations of the Financial Services Businesses by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. However, adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and the adjustments made to derive adjusted operating income are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. The schedules accompanying this release provide a reconciliation of adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses to income from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP.
 
Page 13
 
Our expectation of Common Stock earnings per share is based on after-tax adjusted operating income. Because we do not predict future realized investment gains / losses or recorded changes in asset and liability values that are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders, we cannot provide a measure of our Common Stock earnings per share expectation based on income from continuing operations of the Financial Services Businesses, which is the GAAP measure most comparable to adjusted operating income.
The information referred to above, as well as the risks of our businesses described in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, should be considered by readers when reviewing forward-looking statements contained in this release. Additional historical information relating to our financial performance is located on our Web site at .
www.investor.prudential.com
Earnings Conference Call
Members of Prudential's senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, August 6, 2009 at 11 a.m. ET, to discuss with the investment community the Company's second quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Company's Investor Relations Web site at: . Please log on fifteen minutes early in the event necessary software needs to be downloaded. The call will remain on the Investor Relations Web site for replay through August 21. Institutional investors, analysts, and other members of the professional financial community are invited to listen to the call and participate in Q&A by dialing (877) 777-1971 (domestic callers) or (612) 332-0226 (international callers). All others are encouraged to dial into the conference call in listen-only mode, using the same numbers. To listen to a replay of the conference call starting at 2:00 p.m. on August 6, through August 13, dial (800) 475-6701 (domestic callers) or (320) 365-3844 (international callers). The access code for the replay is 986904.
www.investor.prudential.com
 
Page 14
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $580 billion of assets under management as of June 30, 2009, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Leveraging its heritage of life insurance and asset management expertise, Prudential is focused on helping approximately 50 million individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth. The Company's well-known Rock symbol is an icon of strength, stability, expertise and innovation that has stood the test of time. Prudential's businesses offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. For more information, please visit .
www.news.prudential.com
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
 
 
 
 
 

August 5, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefits and expenses exclude charges related to realized investment gains, net of losses and change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes and include charges for income attributable to non controlling interests.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality (4):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
1. Adjusted operating income before income taxes:
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses that excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net", as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities; change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; results of divested businesses and discontinued operations; earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests; and the related tax effects thereof. Adjusted operating income includes equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and the related tax effects thereof. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and are adjusted for the items above as well.
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
2. After-tax adjusted operating income:
Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes.
3. Annualized New Business Premiums:
Premiums from new sales that are expected to be collected over a one year period. Group insurance annualized new business premiums exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage issued under our Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance contract, and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts. Group insurance annualized new business premiums include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. Group disability amounts include long-term care products. Excess (unscheduled) and single premium business for the company's domestic individual life and international insurance operations are included in annualized new business premiums based on a 10% credit.
4. Assets Under Management:
Fair market value or account value of assets which Prudential manages directly in proprietary products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, in separate accounts, wrap-fee products and the general account, and assets invested in investment options included in the Company's products that are managed by third party sub-managers (i.e., the non-proprietary investment options in the Company's products).
5. Attributed Equity:
Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business or attributable to noncontrolling interests.
6. Book value per share of Common Stock:
Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by the number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis.
7. Borrowings - Capital Debt:
Borrowings that are or will be used for capital requirements at Prudential Financial, Inc as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial, Inc., and subsidiary borrowings, utilized for capital requirements.
8. Borrowings - Investment Related:
Debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate, and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences.
9. Borrowings - Securities Business Related:
Debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker-dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations including our discontinued commercial mortgage conduit related activities.
10. Borrowings - Specified Other Businesses:
Borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, the individual annuity business, real estate franchises, and relocation services.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
11. Client Assets:
Fair market value of assets in client accounts of International brokerage operations, Prudential Bank and mortgage loan servicing business, that are not included in Assets Under Management. Prudential does not receive a management or administrative fee on these assets, but may receive a fee for executing trades, custody or recordkeeping services.
12. Earned Premiums:
The portion of a premium, net of any amount ceded, that represents coverage already provided or that belongs to the insurer based on the part of the policy period that has passed.
13. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock:
Net income (loss) for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments modify earnings available to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. Earnings per share of Common Stock based on adjusted operating income (loss) of the Financial Services Businesses reflects these adjustments as well.
14. Full Service:
The Full Service line of business provides retirement plan products and services to public, private and not-for-profit organizations. This business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, participant education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investment funds. This business mainly services defined contribution and defined benefit plans; non-qualified plans are also serviced. For clients with both defined contribution and defined benefit plans, integrated recordkeeping services are available. For participants leaving these plans, a range of rollover products are provided through a broker-dealer bank.
15. Full Service Stable Value:
Our Full Service Stable Value products represent fixed rate options on investment funds offered to customers. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time. Upon termination these products repay account balances at market value immediately or may be liquidated at book value over time. Substantially all of these products are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual resets giving effect to previous investment experience. These products are issued through the general account, separate accounts or client-owned trusts. Profits from partially participating general account products result from the spread between the rate of return on investment assets and the interest rates credited to the customer, less expenses. For fully participating products, generally subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee, we earn fee income.
16. General Account:
Invested assets and policyholder liabilities and reserves for which the Company bears the investment risk. Excludes assets recognized for statutory purposes that are specifically allocated to a separate account. General account assets also include assets of the parent company, Prudential Financial, Inc.
17. Gibraltar Life Advisors:
Insurance representatives for Gibraltar Life.
18. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Administrative Operating Expense Ratios:
Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income.
19. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Benefits Ratios:
Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income.
20. Individual Annuity Account Values in General Account and Separate Account:
Amounts represent the breakdown of invested customer funds in annuities either written or reinsured by the Company.
21. Insurance and Annuity Benefits:
Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, and losses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
22. International Life Planners:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations outside the United States, excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors. Excludes Life Planners associated with discontinued Philippine operations.
23. Non-recourse and Limited-recourse Debt:
Limited and non-recourse borrowing is where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets.
24. Operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income):
Adjusted operating income after-tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits.
An alternative measure to operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income) is return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations). Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) represents income from continuing operations after-tax attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. as determined in accordance with GAAP (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average total attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses. Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) is 6.76% for the six months ended June 30, 2009, 6.08% for the six months ended June 30, 2008, 12.79% for the three months ended June 30, 2009, .14% for the three months ended March 31, 2009, -39.94% for the three months ended December 31, 2008, -2.30% for the three months ended September 30, 2008, 11.09% for the three months ended June 30, 2008.
25. Policy Persistency - Group Insurance:
Percentage of the premiums in force at the end of the prior year that are still in force at the end of the period (excluding Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Prudential Employee Benefit Plan).
26. Policy Persistency - International Insurance:
13 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their second policy year. 25 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their third policy year.
27. Prudential Agents:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations in the United States.
28. Prudential Agent productivity:
Commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents under contract for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. Excludes commissions on new sales by Prudential Agents hired or departed during the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
29. Ratio of capital debt to total capitalization:
For the purposes of this ratio, we measure "debt" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs and 25% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and we measure "total capitalization" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs, 100% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and attributed equity of the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension / postretirement benefits.
30. Separate Accounts:
Assets of our insurance companies allocated under certain policies and contracts that are segregated from the general account and other separate accounts. The policyholder or contractholder predominantly bears the risk of investments held in a separate account.
31. Wrap-Fee Products:
Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the customer are generally invested in other investment products such as mutual funds.
 
 
RATINGS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
INSURANCE CLAIMS PAYING RATINGS
as of August 5, 2009
 
 
INVESTOR INFORMATION:
 
Common Stock:
Common Stock of Prudential Financial, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PRU.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
June 30, 2009
($ millions)
 
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
June 30, 2009
($ millions)
 
 
In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $4.956 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of June 30, 2009 were $1.340 billion of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities.
 
 
Excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $238 million and fair value of $229 million. Based on amortized cost, 85% of these securities have credit ratings of AAA, 1% have A A credit ratings, 1% have A credit ratings, and the remaining 13% have credit ratings of BBB or below. As of June 30, 2009, included within these asset-backed securities are securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages with amortized cost and fair value of $1 million, all of which have AAA credit ratings, primarily in the 2006 vintage. As of June 30, 2009, there was $21 million in collateralized debt obligations held outside the general account in other entities and operations.
Also excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $0.7 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which we expect will ultimately accrue to contract holders. An additional $1.6 billion of asset-backed securities as of June 30, 2009 are classified as other trading, including $21 million held outside the general account, 98% of which have credit ratings of AAA, and 2% of which have credit ratings of B and $1.6 billion included in our general account, 95% of which have credit ratings of A or above and 4% have BBB credit ratings and the remaining 1% are BB and below.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
June 30, 2009
($ millions)
 
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of June 30, 2009, based on amortized cost, $10.061 billion of the general account residential mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by impicit or expicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AA or above. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $43 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining $88 million of residential mortgage-backed securities; and 54% have credit ratings of A or above, and the remaining 46% with B credit ratings or higher.
Excluded from the above are residential mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $741 million and fair value of $760 million, virtually all of which have AAA credit ratings.
Also excluded from the above are $1.4 billion of residential mortgage-backed securities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and carried at fair value, the investment results of which we expect will ultimately accrue to contract holders, and $118 million of residental mortgage-backed securities classified as other trading.
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
 
 
Excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $67 million and fair value of $64 million, 90% of which have credit ratings of A or better and the remaining 10% have credit ratings of BB and below. Also excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $2.1 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which we expect will ultimately accrue to contract holders, and $119 million of other trading account assets.
An additional $1 million of commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account as of June 30, 2009 are classified as other trading, all of which have AAA credit ratings.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
June 30, 2009
($ millions)
 
(d) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage and other loans:
 
 
As of June 30, 2009, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of general account investments in commercial mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 62% and 1.83 times, respectively.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
June 30, 2009
($ millions)
 
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
 
 
In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $3.977 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business as of June 30, 2009 were $1.335 million of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities.
 
 
Excluded from the table above are $25 million of asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, of which 37% are rated A or above and 63% have BBB credit ratings.
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of June 30, 2009, based on amortized cost, $2.525 billion of the residential mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AAA. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $133 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining $337 million of residential mortgage-backed securities and 37% have credit ratings of AAA, 2% have AA credit ratings, 18% have A credit ratings, 4% have BBB credit ratings, 30% have BB credit ratings and the remaining 9% have B credit ratings.
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
June 30, 2009
($ millions)
 
(d) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage and other loans:
 
 
As of June 30, 2009, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of general account investments in commercial mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business was 56% and 1.94 times, respectively.


