FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20090506165533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.0, a news release announcing first quarter 2009 results.
See also Item 7.01 below, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
As of March 31, 2009, on an amortized cost basis, $636 million, or 1%, of fixed maturity investments attributable to the Closed Block Business were supported by bond insurance. As of March 31, 2009, 64% of these investments had investment grade credit ratings, which in some cases may reflect the credit quality of the monoline bond insurers. Management estimates, taking into account the structure and credit quality of the underlying investments and giving no effect to the support of these securities by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, that 49% of the $636 million total (based upon amortized cost) would have investment grade credit ratings. Based on amortized cost, $444 million of the $636 million of securities supported by bond insurance were asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, $63 million were other asset-backed securities, and $129 million were municipal bonds. Management estimates that 29% of the asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, 88% of the other asset-backed securities, and all of the municipal bonds would have investment grade credit ratings giving no effect to the support of these securities by guarantees from monoline bond insurers. As of March 31, 2009, the bond insurance is provided by five insurance companies, with no company representing more than 37% of the overall amortized cost of the securities supported by bond insurance attributable to the Closed Block Business.
 
Parent Company Short-term Investments and Borrowings
As of March 31, 2009, the parent holding company, Prudential Financial, had cash and short-term investments of $4.745 billion, which included $1.202 billion of subsidiary funds that were invested short-term with Prudential Financial as part of our intercompany liquidity program. Parent holding company cash and short-term investments include $364 million of short-term investments that is comprised primarily of government agency securities and money market funds.
As of March 31, 2009, parent company short-term borrowings amounted to $2.685 billion. This amount includes $734 million of outstanding commercial paper, $1.898 billion principal amount of convertible debt securities, and $53 million current portion of long-term debt. The vast majority of the parent company's outstanding commercial paper proceeds are held in cash or invested in short-term financial instruments. The next date on which holders of the convertible notes may require Prudential Financial to repurchase the notes is June 15, 2009 with respect to $1.894 billion in principal amount.
Prudential Financial's commercial paper is currently rated A-1, P-2, and F2 by Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch, respectively. The ratings from Moody's and Fitch currently have a negative outlook. On February 19, 2009, the commercial paper credit rating of Prudential Financial was downgraded by Fitch from F1 to F2. Consequently, as of that date, Prudential Financial was no longer eligible to issue commercial paper under the Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF) sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. As of March 31, 2009, Prudential Financial's outstanding commercial paper borrowings with CPFF were $374 million, with a maturity of 30 days. Excluding CPFF borrowings, Prudential Financial's outstanding commercial paper as of March 31, 2009 had a weighted average maturity of 17 days and approximately 14% was overnight.
Prudential Funding, LLC Commercial Paper Program
As of March 31, 2009, Prudential Funding, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, had outstanding commercial paper and master note borrowings of $2.573 billion, of which $743 million of the proceeds were held in cash and cash equivalents and the remainder was primarily utilized to fund short-term cash flow timing mismatches, and fund working capital needs of our affiliates.
Prudential Funding's commercial paper is currently rated A-1+, P-1, and F1 by Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch, respectively. The rating from Moody's is currently on review for a possible downgrade, and the Fitch rating has a negative outlook. Based on these current ratings, Prudential Funding is able to participate in the CPFF. The maximum amount of commercial paper that Prudential Funding is eligible to issue under the CPFF is $9.815 billion, less the outstanding amount of any non-CPFF commercial paper at any applicable time. As of March 31, 2009, Prudential Funding's outstanding commercial paper borrowings with CPFF were $750 million, with a maturity of 30 days. Excluding CPFF borrowings, Prudential Funding's outstanding commercial paper as of March 31, 2009, had a weighted average maturity of 22 days and approximately 4% was overnight. Access to the CPFF for new issuances of commercial paper is scheduled to terminate on October 30, 2009, unless such date is extended by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Asset-based Financing
As of March 31, 2009, Prudential's Financial Services Businesses had liabilities totaling $5.999 billion under asset-based financing programs, including $3.743 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase, $1.966 billion representing cash collateral for loaned securities and $290 million of securities sold but not yet purchased. Under these programs, the company loans securities in return for cash collateral which is primarily used to purchase securities for the short-term spread portfolios in our domestic insurance entities. These portfolios comprise cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and fixed maturities with a weighted average life at the time of purchase of two years or less. Of the total $5.999 billion, $2.449 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder has maturities ranging from 2 days to 3 months with a weighted average maturity of 43 days. As of March 31, 2009, the asset-based financing programs represented approximately 3.4% of total investments of $178.6 billion for the Financial Services Businesses.
As of March 31, 2009, Prudential's Closed Block Business had liabilities totaling $5.468 billion under such programs, including $4.240 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase and $1.228 billion representing cash collateral for loaned securities. Of the total $5.468 billion, $1.850 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder has maturities ranging from 2 days to 3 months with a weighted average maturity of 32 days. As of March 31, 2009, the asset-based financing programs represented approximately 9.5% of total investments of $57.8 billion for the Closed Block Business.
Ratings-Driven Contingencies
A downgrade in the credit or financial strength (i.e., claims-paying) ratings of Prudential Financial or its rated subsidiaries could potentially, among other things, limit our ability to market products, reduce our competitiveness, increase the number or value of policy surrenders and withdrawals, increase our borrowing costs and potentially make it more difficult to borrow funds, adversely affect the availability of financial guarantees, such as letters of credit, cause additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, allow counterparties to terminate derivative agreements and/or hurt our relationships with creditors or trading counterparties thereby potentially negatively effecting our profitability, liquidity and/or capital. Additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, including derivative agreements, are eligible to be satisfied in cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. A ratings downgrade of three ratings levels from the ratings levels as of March 31, 2009 would result in
estimated additional collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $200 million. In addition, a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best to "A-" for our domestic life insurance companies would require Prudential Insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of approximately $1.5 billion, based on the level of statutory reserves related to an acquired business, that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $180 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. Similarly, if the financial strength rating of Prudential Insurance falls below "A-" from S&P or "A3" from Moody's, Prudential Insurance is required under another agreement to deposit approximately $500 million of assets in the form of cash or securities into a trust for the purpose of securing insurance liabilities related to the disposition of our property and casualty operations in 2003. In each case, we believe that the posting of such collateral would not be a material liquidity event for Prudential Insurance.
In addition, agreements in connection with capital management activities for our universal life insurance products would require us to post cash collateral based on tests that consider the level of 10-year credit default swap spreads on Prudential Financial's senior debt. As of March 31, 2009, when estimates of Prudential Financial's 10-year credit default swap spreads were approximately 860 basis points, we had posted $145 million of collateral under this agreement. We estimate that the collateral posting requirements could be up to $400 million at an effective 10-year credit default swap spread of 2,000 basis points, based on indications of forward LIBOR rates as of March 31, 2009.
Federal Home Loan Bank of New York Facility
In June 2008, Prudential Insurance became a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, or FHLBNY. Membership allows Prudential Insurance to participate in FHLBNY's product line of financial services, including collateralized funding agreements, general asset/liability management, and collateralized advances that can be used for liquidity management and as an alternative source of funding. Under FHLBNY guidelines, borrowings by its members are at the discretion of the FHLBNY.
Under guidance of the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, the total amount of qualifying mortgage-related assets and U.S. Treasury securities that may be pledged as collateral by Prudential Insurance to FHLBNY is limited to 5% of the prior year's admitted assets of Prudential Insurance on a statutory basis, exclusive of separate account assets, which equates to $7.5 billion based on admitted assets as of December 31, 2008. Based upon the existing guidance and on the fair value of qualifying assets owned by Prudential Insurance within the Financial Services Businesses as of March 31, 2009 (including assets on loan and assets pledged to the FHLBNY at that date and taking into account applicable required collateralization levels and required purchases of activity based FHLBNY stock), the estimated total borrowing capacity with the FHLBNY was approximately $6.5 billion as of March 31, 2009. As of March 31, 2009, total outstanding borrowings with FHLBNY amounted to $4.5 billion, which includes $3.0 billion of collateralized advances and $1.5 billion of collateralized funding agreements. Subsequent to March 31, 2009, $1.0 billion of collateralized advances have been repaid upon maturity.
Due to the rating downgrades experienced during the first quarter of 2009, we are currently only able to borrow from the FHLBNY for a term of 90 days or less which can be refinanced on similar terms. We believe that longer term borrowings may again be made available to us in the near future.
Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities
As of March 31, 2009, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $4.34 billion. These facilities are available to each of the borrowers, up to the aggregate committed credit, to be used for general corporate purposes. This amount includes a $1.94 billion 5-year credit facility that expires in May 2012, which includes 20 financial institutions, and an additional $2.4 billion credit facility, of which $200 million expires in December 2011 and $2.2 billion expires in December 2012, which includes 18 financial institutions. The available credit and number of lenders reflects the removal in January 2009 of Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and Lehman Brothers Bank FSB as participants in these facilities. Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., which filed for bankruptcy in October 2008, had been a participant in the amount of $60 million and Lehman Brothers Bank FSB had been a participant in the amount of $100 million.
Within each facility, no single financial institution has more than 15% of the total committed credit. Borrowings under the outstanding facilities will mature no later than the respective expiration dates of the facilities and will bear interest at the rates set forth in each facility agreement. We maintain these facilities primarily as back-up liquidity lines for our commercial paper programs, and there were no outstanding borrowings under any of these facilities as of March 31, 2009.
Our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on the continued satisfaction of customary conditions, including maintenance at all times by Prudential Insurance of total adjusted capital of at least $5.5 billion based on statutory accounting principles prescribed under New Jersey law and Prudential Financial's maintenance of consolidated net worth of at least
$12.5 billion, which for this purpose is based on GAAP stockholders' equity, excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments. Our ability to borrow under these facilities is not contingent on our credit ratings or subject to material adverse change clauses. As of March 31, 2009, Prudential Insurance's total adjusted capital and Prudential Financial's consolidated GAAP stockholders' equity, excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments, exceeded the minimum amounts required to borrow under these facilities. We also use uncommitted lines of credit from financial institutions.
Credit Derivative Activities
The company has sold credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments.
In a credit derivative we sell credit protection on an identified name, or a basket of names in a first to default structure, and in return receive a quarterly premium. With single name credit default derivatives, this premium or credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the referenced name's public fixed maturity cash instruments and swap rates, at the time the agreement is executed. With first-to-default baskets, because of the additional credit risk inherent in a basket of named credits, the premium generally corresponds to a high proportion of the sum of the credit spreads of the names in the basket. If there is an event of default by the referenced name or one of the referenced names in a basket, as defined by the agreement, then we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced defaulted security or similar security. After the first default the contract is terminated and any subsequent defaults on the remaining names within such instruments require no further payment to counterparties.
The vast majority of referenced names in the credit derivatives where we have sold credit protection, as well as all the counterparties to these agreements, are investment grade credit quality and our credit derivatives generally have maturities of five years or less. As of March 31, 2009 and December 31, we had $1.205 billion and $1.222 billion, respectively, in outstanding notional amounts of credit derivative contracts where we have sold credit protection. The Financial Services Businesses had $1.141 billion and $1.161 billion of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as a liability of $196 million and $146 million, as of March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. The Closed Block Business had $64 million and $61 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as a liability of $2 million and $2 million, as of March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.
In addition to selling credit protection, we have purchased credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio, including exposures relating to certain guarantees from monoline bond insurers. Substantially all of the counterparties from which the company has purchased credit protection are investment grade credit quality. As of March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the Financial Services Businesses had $1.247 billion and $1.069 billion of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as an asset of $237 million and $189 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the Closed Block Business had $330 million and $309 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as an asset of $98 million and $64 million, respectively.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 6, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today reported a net loss of its Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $5 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $68 million for the year-ago quarter. Net income per Common share was 1 cent for the first quarter of 2009 and 18 cents for the year-ago quarter. After-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses was $436 million ($1.05 per Common share) for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $692 million ($1.57 per Common share) for the first quarter of 2008. Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure as discussed below.
NEWARK, N.J. 
"While our current quarter results continue to reflect unfavorable market and economic conditions, our solid balance sheet and product portfolio support highly attractive value propositions for clients focused on financial security and peace of mind. We view the positive net flows registered by our U.S. retirement, annuities and asset management businesses and the solid sales results in our domestic and international insurance businesses as validation of our core business models, as well as the dedication of our associates in these difficult times. We are focused on maintaining and bolstering the financial strength that has supported our commitment to keep our promises for more than 130 years," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld.
"Considering current financial market conditions, including equity market levels, interest rates and credit spreads, we believe that Prudential Financial will achieve Common Stock earnings per share for 2009 in the range of $4.80 to $5.20 based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses. This expectation assumes appreciation of 2% per quarter in the S&P 500 index, commencing with its close as of December 31, 2008," Strangfeld said. The 2009 expectation is subject to change if this assumption is not realized and as discussed under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures" below.
Adjusted operating income is not calculated under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Information regarding adjusted operating income, a non-GAAP measure, is discussed later in this press release under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures," and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the most comparable GAAP measure is provided in the tables that accompany this release.
 
Page 3
 
Financial Services Businesses
Prudential Financial's Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of its Financial Services Businesses, which consist of its U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance, and International Insurance and Investments divisions and its Corporate and Other operations.
Reported results for the first quarter of 2009 and earlier periods presented reflect the implementation of new accounting guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, as discussed under "New Accounting Guidance" later in this release. In the following business-level discussion, adjusted operating income refers to pre-tax results.
The reported adjusted operating income of $175 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $358 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division
The Individual Annuities segment reported adjusted operating income of $17 million in the current quarter, compared to $115 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include charges of $215 million to strengthen reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and $112 million representing a net increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs reflecting an updated estimate of profitability for this business. These charges were largely driven by declines in customer account values through March 31, 2009. Results for the year-ago quarter included net charges of $15 million from adjustment of these items to recognize experience in that period. Mark-to-market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with living benefits, after amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, resulted in a net benefit of $261 million to current quarter adjusted operating income, which included a benefit of $236 million from the required adjustment of embedded derivative liabilities
 
Page 4
 
for living benefits to recognize market-based non-performance risk associated with our own credit standing. Results for the year-ago quarter included net charges of $17 million from mark-to-market of these embedded derivatives and related hedge positions. Excluding the effect of the foregoing items, adjusted operating income for the Individual Annuities segment declined $64 million from the year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting lower fees driven by market value declines in customer account values.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $159 million for the current quarter, an increase of $35 million from the year-ago quarter. The increase primarily resulted from a greater contribution from net investment spreads, which more than offset lower fees associated with market value declines in customer account values. In addition, current quarter results benefited $13 million from the required adjustment of liabilities for contract guarantees to recognize market-based non-performance risk.
The Asset Management segment reported a loss of $1 million for the current quarter, compared to adjusted operating income of $119 million for the year-ago quarter. The decrease came primarily from lower performance-based fees, primarily related to institutional real estate funds, and less favorable results from proprietary investing activities. In addition, asset management fees were below the level of the year-ago quarter, reflecting market value declines in assets under management which more than offset net inflows of institutional funds.
The reported adjusted operating income of $133 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $186 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division
The Individual Life segment reported adjusted operating income of $40 million for the current quarter, compared to $96 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease came primarily from higher net amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other items relating to current quarter experience, together with related costs, driven by unfavorable separate account
 
Page 5
 
performance. In addition, current quarter results reflected less favorable mortality experience than that of the year-ago quarter, and lower fees associated with customer account values because of market value declines.
The Group Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $93 million in the current quarter, compared to $90 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited from more favorable group life and disability claims experience than in the year-ago quarter, while results for the year-ago quarter included a $20 million benefit from a cumulative adjustment of premiums for earlier periods on a large group life insurance case.
The reported adjusted operating income of $435 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $439 million in the year-ago quarter.
International Insurance and Investments division
The International Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $425 million for the current quarter, an increase of $12 million from the year-ago quarter. The segment's Life Planner insurance operations reported adjusted operating income of $294 million for the current quarter, an increase of $9 million from the year-ago quarter, reflecting continued business growth which was partially offset by current quarter expenses related to technology improvements and the estimated liability for Japanese guaranty fund assessments. The segment's Gibraltar Life operations reported adjusted operating income of $131 million for the current quarter, compared to $128 million in the year-ago quarter. A greater contribution from investment results, reflecting portfolio strategies including increased investing in U.S. dollar-based securities, was largely offset by a less favorable level of expenses and policy benefits. Foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of the Company's currency hedging programs, did not have a significant effect on the comparison of results for the segment's international insurance businesses.
 
Page 6
 
The International Investments segment reported adjusted operating income of $10 million for the current quarter, compared to $26 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease resulted primarily from less favorable results from the segment's Korean asset management operations.
resulted in a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $166 million in the first quarter of 2009, compared to a loss of $51 million in the year-ago quarter. The increased loss came primarily from increased interest expense, net of investment income, reflecting a greater level of capital debt including $1.5 billion of junior subordinated long-term debt securities issued in 2008, and lower earnings from the investment of debt issuance proceeds. The increase in net financing costs was partly offset by a $7 million benefit to current quarter results from the repurchase of $245 million original principal amount of Prudential Financial convertible debt securities due in 2037 which were offered to the Company by certain holders in individually negotiated transactions at a discount. The Company's real estate and relocation business reported a loss of $63 million for the current quarter, compared to a loss of $23 million in the year-ago quarter, reflecting unfavorable residential real estate market conditions.
Corporate and Other operations
amounted to $542 billion at March 31, 2009, compared to $558 billion at December 31, 2008.
Assets under management
The of the Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. amounted to $5 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $68 million in the year-ago quarter.
net loss
The current quarter net loss includes $666 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments. Net realized investment losses in the current quarter include $719 million of losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired investments and $138 million representing decreases in market value of certain externally managed investments in the European market. The losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities reflect $465 million on fixed maturity investments, including $240 million relating to asset-backed securities collateralized
 
Page 7
 
by sub-prime mortgages, and $253 million of impairments on equity securities. The foregoing realized investment losses were partially offset by net realized gains from general account portfolio activities during the quarter.
At March 31, 2009, gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $11.248 billion, including $8.462 billion on investment-grade securities. Gross unrealized losses include $2.634 billion related to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses at March 31, 2009 include $7.780 billion of declines in value of 20% or more of amortized cost, of which $6.953 billion represents such declines in value for three months or more. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $11.251 billion at year-end 2008. Net unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $7.514 billion at March 31, 2009, compared to $6.567 billion at December 31, 2008.
The net loss for the current quarter also reflects pre-tax increases of $145 million in recorded asset values and $45 million in recorded liabilities representing changes in value which are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. These changes primarily represent interest rate related mark-to-market adjustments. The net loss for the current quarter also includes $32 million of pre-tax losses from divested businesses, primarily reflecting a $25 million pre-tax loss from the Company's retail securities brokerage joint venture with Wachovia and related costs. On January 1, 2008, Wachovia combined the acquired retail securities brokerage business of A.G. Edwards, Inc. with the joint venture. The Company's estimated share of the results of the joint venture and transition costs, subsequent to this combination, is based on a diluted ownership level which is currently being finalized. As previously announced, the Company intends to exercise its right under the "lookback" option to put its joint venture interests to Wells Fargo, which acquired Wachovia on December 31, 2008. Under the terms of the joint venture agreements, closing of the
 
Page 8
 
put transaction would occur on or about January 1, 2010. The current quarter loss reflects absorption, through our estimated share of joint venture results, of $17 million of transition costs related to Wachovia's acquisition of A. G. Edwards.
Net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the year-ago quarter included $678 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments, decreases of $262 million in recorded assets and $200 million in recorded liabilities for which changes in value are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders, and losses of $67 million from divested businesses, in each case before income taxes.
Closed Block Business
Prudential's Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of its Closed Block Business.
The Closed Block Business includes our in-force participating life insurance and annuity policies, and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies.
The Closed Block Business reported income from continuing operations before income taxes of $30 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $26 million for the year-ago quarter. The Closed Block Business reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. for the first quarter of 2009 of $19 million, compared to a net loss attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $8 million for the year-ago quarter.
Consolidated Results
There is no legal separation of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock are both common stockholders of Prudential Financial, Inc.
 
Page 9
 
On a consolidated basis, which includes the results of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, Prudential Financial, Inc. reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $14 million for the first quarter of 2009 compared to $60 million for the year-ago quarter.
New Accounting Guidance
Effective January 1, 2009, the company adopted new FASB guidance for determination of whether markets are considered "inactive" and whether transactions in those markets are considered "distressed" for purposes of measuring the fair value of assets or liabilities ("FSP FAS 157-4"), and for the recognition of other-than-temporary impairment of debt securities ("FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2"). The latter guidance requires a bifurcation of other than temporary declines in value of debt securities, in instances where the company neither intends to sell the security nor is more likely than not to be required to sell the security, prior to recovery of book value. Under this guidance, the portion of the decline in value that represents a reduction of expected cash flows from the security is to be recognized by a charge to net income, while the remainder of the decline in value is recognized within accumulated other comprehensive income. As a result of the transition adjustment required by this guidance, attributed equity of the Financial Services Businesses excluding total accumulated other comprehensive income as of January 1, 2009 was increased by $675 million, with a corresponding reduction to accumulated other comprehensive income. This transition adjustment reflected $1.1 billion of previously recorded other-than-temporary impairments on debt securities, on a pretax basis, representing the portion of decline in fair value of the securities that is not associated with an estimated decrease in expected cash flows. During the first quarter of 2009, declines in value of debt securities held by the Financial Services Businesses for which other-than-temporary impairments were determined to have occurred amounted to $1.1 billion on a pre-tax basis, of which $424 million represented reductions in expected cash flows and were consequently included in realized investment losses, while the remaining $658 million was recorded within accumulated other comprehensive income.
 
Page 10
 
In addition, effective January 1, 2009, the company adopted new FASB guidance for convertible debt securities ("FSP APB 14-1"). This guidance requires bifurcation of certain convertible debt instruments, including those issued by the company in 2006 and 2007, into a debt component and an equity component. The retroactive implementation of this guidance, as required by FASB, resulted in an increase in interest expense within Corporate and Other results, with a corresponding negative impact on pretax adjusted operating income, of $15 million for the first quarter of 2008. The adoption of this guidance also resulted in a decrease of $20 million in reported short-term debt of the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2008, with a corresponding increase in additional paid-in capital.
Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures
Certain of the statements included in this release including (but not limited to) those in the third paragraph hereof, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U. S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "includes," "plans," "assumes," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "should," "will," "shall," or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) general economic, market and political conditions, including the performance and fluctuations of fixed income, equity, real estate and other financial markets, particularly in light of ongoing severe economic conditions and the severe stress experienced by the global financial markets that began in the second half of 2007 and has continued and substantially increased since then; (2) the availability and cost of external financing for our operations, which has been affected by the stress experienced by the
 
Page 11
 
global financial markets; (3) interest rate fluctuations; (4) reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims; (5) differences between actual experience regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, surrender experience, interest rates or market returns and the assumptions we use in pricing our products, establishing liabilities and reserves or for other purposes; (6) changes in our assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, valuation of business acquired or goodwill; (7) changes in our claims-paying or credit ratings; (8) investment losses, defaults and counterparty non-performance; (9) competition in our product lines and for personnel; (10) changes in tax law; (11) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations; (12) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; (13) regulatory or legislative changes, including government actions in response to the stress experienced by the global financial markets; (14) adverse determinations in litigation or regulatory matters and our exposure to contingent liabilities, including in connection with our divestiture or winding down of businesses; (15) domestic or international military actions, natural or man-made disasters including terrorist activities or pandemic disease, or other events resulting in catastrophic loss of life; (16) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures in identifying, monitoring and managing risks; (17) effects of acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including possible difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions; (18) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; (19) changes in assumptions for retirement expense; (20) Prudential Financial, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends or distributions in light of our ratings objectives and/or applicable regulatory restrictions; and (21) risks due to the lack of legal separation between our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. As noted above, the adverse market and economic conditions that began in the second half of 2007 have continued and substantially worsened since then. The foregoing risks are even more pronounced in these unprecedented market and economic conditions. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and is under no obligation, to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document.
 
Page 12
 
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net," as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments. A significant element of realized investment gains and losses are impairments and credit-related and interest rate-related gains and losses. Impairments and losses from sales of credit-impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles, can vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses, such as interest rate-related gains or losses, is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities as well as our tax and capital profile.
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities related to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income also excludes investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes, because these recorded changes in asset and liability values are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. In addition, adjusted operating income excludes the results of divested businesses, which are not relevant to our ongoing operations. Discontinued operations, which is presented as a separate component of net income under GAAP, is also excluded from adjusted operating income.
 
Page 13
 
We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of the results of operations of the Financial Services Businesses by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. However, adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and the excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. The schedules accompanying this release provide a reconciliation of adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses to income from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP.
Our expectation of Common Stock earnings per share is based on after-tax adjusted operating income. Because we do not predict future realized investment gains / losses or recorded changes in asset and liability values that are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders, we cannot provide a measure of our Common Stock earnings per share expectation based on income from continuing operations of the Financial Services Businesses, which is the GAAP measure most comparable to adjusted operating income.
The information referred to above, as well as the risks of our businesses described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, should be considered by readers when reviewing forward-looking statements contained in this release. Additional historical information relating to our financial performance is located on our Web site at .
www.investor.prudential.com
Earnings Conference Call
Members of Prudential's senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, May 7, 2009 at 11 a.m. ET, to discuss with the investment community the Company's first quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Company's Investor Relations Web site at: . Please log on fifteen minutes early in the event necessary software needs to be downloaded. The call will remain on the Investor Relations Web site for replay through May 22. Institutional investors, analysts, and other members of the professional
www.investor.prudential.com
 
Page 14
 
financial community are invited to listen to the call and participate in Q&A by dialing (877) 777-1971 (domestic callers) or (612) 332-0226 (international callers). All others are encouraged to dial into the conference call in listen-only mode, using the same numbers. To listen to a replay of the conference call starting at 2:00 p.m. on May 7, through May 14, dial (800) 475-6701 (domestic callers) or (320) 365-3844 (international callers). The access code for the replay is 986903.
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $542 billion of assets under management as of March 31, 2009, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Leveraging its heritage of life insurance and asset management expertise, Prudential is focused on helping approximately 50 million individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth. The Company's well-known Rock symbol is an icon of strength, stability, expertise and innovation that has stood the test of time. Prudential's businesses offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. For more information, please visit .
www.news.prudential.com
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Reference is made to Prudential Financial, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for general information, and consolidated financial information, regarding Prudential Financial, Inc., including its Closed Block Business. All financial information in this document is unaudited.
May 6, 2009
 
 
 
 
This Quarterly Financial Supplement reflects the following for all periods presented herein:
Effective January 1, 2009, the company adopted the following accounting pronouncements:
FSP APB 14-1, "Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)." This guidance requires bifurcation of certain convertible debt instruments, including those issued by the company in 2006 and 2007, into a debt component and an equity component. The retroactive implementation of this guidance, as required by FASB, resulted in increases in interest expense within Corporate and Other results, for all historical periods presented. The adoption of this guidance also resulted in decreases in reported short-term debt of the Financial Services Businesses, with corresponding increases in additional paid-in capital, for all historical periods presented.
SFAS No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements" - This guidance changes the accounting for minority interests, which have been recharacterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. The income or loss attributable to noncontrolling interest is now captured as a separate line on the GAAP income statement. These changes have been made for all historical periods presented. This change does not impact adjusted operating income.
FSP EITF 03-6-1, "Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities" - This guidance requires unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends to be included as participating securities in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. This guidance has been applied to all historical periods presented.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefits and expenses exclude charges related to realized investment gains, net of losses and change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality (4):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Adjusted operating income before income taxes:
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses that excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net", as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities; change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; results of divested businesses and discontinued operations; earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests; and the related tax effects thereof. Adjusted operating income includes equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and the related tax effects thereof. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and are adjusted for the items above as well.
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
2. After-tax adjusted operating income:
Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes.
3. Annualized New Business Premiums:
Premiums from new sales that are expected to be collected over a one year period. Group insurance annualized new business premiums exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage issued under our Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance contract, and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts. Group insurance annualized new business premiums include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. Group disability amounts include long-term care products. Excess (unscheduled) and single premium business for the company's domestic individual life and international insurance operations are included in annualized new business premiums based on a 10% credit.
4. Assets Under Management:
Fair market value or account value of assets which Prudential manages directly in proprietary products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, in separate accounts, wrap-fee products and the general account, and assets invested in investment options included in the Company's products that are managed by third party sub-managers (i.e., the non-proprietary investment options in the Company's products).
5. Attributed Equity:
Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business or attributable to noncontrolling interests.
6. Book value per share of Common Stock:
Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by the number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis.
7. Borrowings - Capital Debt:
Borrowings that are or will be used for capital requirements at Prudential Financial, Inc as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial, Inc., and subsidiary borrowings, utilized for capital requirements.
8. Borrowings - Investment Related:
Debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate, and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences.
9. Borrowings - Securities Business Related:
Debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker-dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations including our discontinued commercial mortgage conduit related activities.
10. Borrowings - Specified Other Businesses:
Borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, the individual annuity business, real estate franchises, and relocation services.
 
 
11. Client Assets:
Fair market value of assets in client accounts of International brokerage operations, Prudential Bank and mortgage loan servicing business, that are not included in Assets Under Management. Prudential does not receive a management or administrative fee on these assets, but may receive a fee for executing trades, custody or recordkeeping services.
12. Earned Premiums:
The portion of a premium, net of any amount ceded, that represents coverage already provided or that belongs to the insurer based on the part of the policy period that has passed.
13. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock:
Net income (loss) for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments modify earnings available to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. Earnings per share of Common Stock based on adjusted operating income (loss) of the Financial Services Businesses reflects these adjustments as well.
14. Full Service:
The Full Service line of business provides retirement plan products and services to public, private and not-for-profit organizations. This business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, participant education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investment funds. This business mainly services defined contribution and defined benefit plans; non-qualified plans are also serviced. For clients with both defined contribution and defined benefit plans, integrated recordkeeping services are available. For participants leaving these plans, a range of rollover products are provided through a broker-dealer bank.
15. Full Service Stable Value:
Our Full Service Stable Value products represent fixed rate options on investment funds offered to customers. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time. Upon termination these products repay account balances at market value immediately or may be liquidated at book value over time. Substantially all of these products are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual resets giving effect to previous investment experience. These products are issued through the general account, separate accounts or client-owned trusts. Profits from partially participating general account products result from the spread between the rate of return on investment assets and the interest rates credited to the customer, less expenses. For fully participating products, generally subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee, we earn fee income.
16. General Account:
Invested assets and policyholder liabilities and reserves for which the Company bears the investment risk. Excludes assets recognized for statutory purposes that are specifically allocated to a separate account. General account assets also include assets of the parent company, Prudential Financial, Inc.
17. Gibraltar Life Advisors:
Insurance representatives for Gibraltar Life.
18. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Administrative Operating Expense Ratios:
Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income.
19. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Benefits Ratios:
Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income.
20. Individual Annuity Account Values in General Account and Separate Account:
Amounts represent the breakdown of invested customer funds in annuities either written or reinsured by the Company.
21. Insurance and Annuity Benefits:
Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, and losses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.
 
 
22. International Life Planners:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations outside the United States, excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors. Excludes Life Planners associated with discontinued Philippine operations.
23. Non-recourse and Limited-recourse Debt:
Limited and non-recourse borrowing is where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets.
24. Operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income):
Adjusted operating income after-tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits.
An alternative measure to operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income) is return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations). Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) represents income from continuing operations after-tax attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. as determined in accordance with GAAP (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average total attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses. Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) is .14% for the three months ended March 31, 2009, -40.28% for the three months ended December 31, 2008, -2.30% for the three months ended September 30, 2008, 11.09% for the three months ended June 30, 2008 and 1.41% for the three months ended March 31, 2008.
25. Policy Persistency - Group Insurance:
Percentage of the premiums in force at the end of the prior year that are still in force at the end of the period (excluding Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Prudential Employee Benefit Plan).
26. Policy Persistency - International Insurance:
13 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their second policy year. 25 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their third policy year.
27. Prudential Agents:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations in the United States.
28. Prudential Agent productivity:
Commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents under contract for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. Excludes commissions on new sales by Prudential Agents hired or departed during the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
29. Ratio of capital debt to total capitalization:
For the purposes of this ratio, we measure "debt" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs and 25% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and we measure "total capitalization" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs, 100% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and attributed equity of the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension / postretirement benefits.
30. Separate Accounts:
Assets of our insurance companies allocated under certain policies and contracts that are segregated from the general account and other separate accounts. The policyholder or contractholder predominantly bears the risk of investments held in a separate account.
31. Wrap-Fee Products:
Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the customer are generally invested in other investment products such as mutual funds.
 
 
RATINGS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
INSURANCE CLAIMS PAYING RATINGS
as of May 6, 2009
 
 
INVESTOR INFORMATION:
 
Common Stock:
Common Stock of Prudential Financial, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PRU.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
March 31, 2009
($ millions)
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
 
In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $5.476 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of March 31, 2009 were $1.536 billion of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities.
 
 
Excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $241 million and fair value of $222 million. Based on amortized cost, 85% of these securities have credit ratings of AAA, 1% have A A credit ratings, 2% have A credit ratings, and the remaining 12% have credit ratings of BBB or below. As of March 31, 2009, included within these asset-backed securities are securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages with amortized cost and fair value of $3 million, all of which have AAA credit ratings, with $2 million in the 2006 vintage and $1 million in the 2003 vintage. As of March 31, 2009 there were no collateralized debt obligations held outside the general account in other entities and operations.
Also excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $0.5 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which we expect will ultimately accrue to contract holders. An additional $1.1 billion of asset-backed securities as of March 31, 2009 are classified as other trading, including $23 million held outside the general account, 99% of which have credit ratings of AAA, and 1% of which have credit ratings of B and $1.1 billion included in our general account, 92% of asset-backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses have credit ratings of A or above and the remaining 8% virtually all have BBB credit ratings.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
March 31, 2009
($ millions)
 
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of March 31, 2009, based on amortized cost, $9.511 billion of the general account residential mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by impicit or expicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AA or above. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $46 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining $183 million of residential mortgage-backed securities; and 79% have credit ratings of A or above, and the remaining 21% with B credit ratings or higher.
Excluded from the above are residential mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $784 million and fair value of $800 million, virtually all of which have AAA credit ratings.
Also excluded from the above are $1.4 billion of residential mortgage-backed securities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and carried at fair value, the investment results of which we expect will ultimately accrue to contract holders, and $121 million of residential mortgage-backed securities classified as other trading.
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
 
 
Excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $65 million and fair value of $59 million, 89% of which have credit ratings of A or better and the remaining 11% have credit ratings of BB and below. Also excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $2.1 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which we expect will ultimately accrue to contract holders, and $117 million of other trading account assets.
An additional $1 million of commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account as of March 31, 2009 are classified as other trading, all of which have AAA credit ratings.
 
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
March 31, 2009
($ millions)
 
(d) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage and other loans:
 
 
As of March 31, 2009, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of general account investments in commercial mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 60% and 1.86 times, respectively.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
March 31, 2009
($ millions)
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
March 31, 2009
($ millions)
 
In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $4.354 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business as of March 31, 2009 were $1.526 million of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities.
 
 
Excluded from the table above are $18 million of asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, of which 37% are rated A or above and 63% have BBB credit ratings as of March 31, 2009.
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of March 31, 2009, based on amortized cost, $2.393 billion of the residential mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AAA. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $139 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining $516 million of residential mortgage-backed securities and 91% have credit ratings of AAA, 3% have A credit ratings, 3% have BBB credit ratings and the remaining 3% have B credit raings.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
March 31, 2009
($ millions)
 
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
 
 
(d) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage and other loans:
 
 
As of March 31, 2009, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of general account investments in commercial mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business was 54% and 1.94 times, respectively.


