FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20090204163921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.0, a news release announcing fourth quarter 2008 results.
See also Item 7.01 below, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2008, on an amortized cost basis, $685 million, or 2%, of fixed maturity investments attributable to the Closed Block Business were supported by bond insurance. As of December 31, 2008, 30% of these investments had credit ratings of A or higher, which in some cases may reflect the credit quality of the monoline bond insurers. Management estimates, taking into account the structure and credit quality of the underlying investments and giving no effect to the support of these securities by guarantees from monoline bond insurers, that 75% of the $685 million total (based upon amortized cost) would have investment grade credit ratings. Based on amortized cost, $471 million of the $685 million of securities supported by bond insurance were asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, $87 million were other asset-backed securities, and $127 million were municipal bonds. Management estimates that 65% of the asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, 90% of the other asset-backed securities, and all of the municipal bonds would have investment grade credit ratings giving no effect to the support of these securities by guarantees from monoline bond insurers. As of December 31, 2008, the bond insurance is provided by five insurance companies, with no company representing more than 35% of the overall amortized cost of the securities supported by bond insurance attributable to the Closed Block Business.
 
Parent Company Short-term Investments and Borrowings
As of December 31, 2008, the parent holding company, Prudential Financial, had cash and short-term investments of $4.434 billion, which included $537 million of subsidiary funds that were invested short-term with Prudential Financial as part of our intercompany liquidity program. The short-term investments comprise $707 million of this amount and consist primarily of government agency securities and money market funds.
As of December 31, 2008, parent company short-term borrowings amounted to $4.474 billion. This amount includes $1.243 billion of outstanding commercial paper, $2.151 billion principal amount of convertible debt securities, $816 million representing foreign currency denominated bridge loan facilities, and $264 million current portion of long-term debt. The vast majority of the parent company's outstanding commercial paper proceeds are invested in short-term financial
instruments. The next date on which holders of the convertible notes may require Prudential Financial to repurchase the notes is June 15, 2009 with respect to $2.147 billion. The foreign currency denominated bridge loan facilities mature on February 13, 2009 and the majority of the current portion of long-term debt matures in the first quarter of 2009.
Prudential Financial's short-term debt, including commercial paper, is rated A-1, P-2, and F1 by Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch, respectively. Based on these ratings, Prudential Financial is eligible to participate in the Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF) sponsored by the Federal government, and it has received approval to participate in CPFF. The Federal Reserve has announced that CPFF will purchase eligible three-month unsecured and asset-backed U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper from eligible issuers. The maximum amount of commercial paper an issuer can sell to CPFF is equivalent to the greatest amount of U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper the issuer had outstanding during any single day between January 1, 2008 and August 31, 2008. The maximum amount of commercial paper that Prudential Financial is eligible to issue under the CPFF is $1.297 billion. Unsecured commercial paper purchased by the CPFF is discounted based on a rate equal to a spread (200 basis points) over the three-month overnight index swap rate on the day of purchase. Access to the CPFF for new issuances of commercial paper is scheduled to terminate on October 30, 2009, unless such date is extended by the Federal Reserve. As of December 31, 2008, Prudential Financial's outstanding commercial paper borrowings with CPFF were $898 million, with a weighted average maturity of 40 days.
Excluding CPFF borrowings, Prudential Financial had outstanding commercial paper as of December 31, 2008 with a weighted average maturity of 22 days, and approximately 3% was overnight.
Prudential Funding, LLC Commercial Paper Program
As of December 31, 2008, Prudential Funding, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Prudential Insurance, had outstanding commercial paper and master note borrowings of $4.354 billion, of which $1.632 billion of the proceeds were invested in short-term financial instruments and the remainder was primarily utilized to fund short term cash flow timing mismatches, and fund working capital needs of our affiliates.
Prudential Funding's commercial paper is rated A-1+, P-1, and F1+ by Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch, respectively. Based on these ratings, Prudential Funding is also eligible to participate in the CPFF, and it has received approval to participate in CPFF. The maximum amount of commercial paper that Prudential Funding is eligible to issue under the CPFF is $9.815 billion. As of December 31, 2008, Prudential Funding, LLC's outstanding commercial paper borrowings with CPFF were $450 million, with a weighted average maturity of 44 days.
Excluding CPFF borrowings, Prudential Funding, LLC had outstanding commercial paper as of December 31, 2008, with a weighted average maturity of 25 days, and approximately 27% was overnight.
Asset-based Financing
As of December 31, 2008, Prudential's Financial Services Businesses had liabilities totaling $7.455 billion under asset-based financing programs, including $4.288 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase, $2.684 billion representing cash collateral for loaned securities and $483 million of securities sold but not yet purchased. Under these programs, the company loans securities in return for cash collateral which is primarily used to purchase securities for the short-term spread portfolios in our domestic insurance entities. These portfolios comprise cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and fixed maturities with a weighted average life at the time of purchase of two years or less. Of the total $7.455 billion, $3.006 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder has maturities ranging from 2 days to 3 months with a weighted average maturity of 28 days. As of December 31, 2008, the asset-based financing programs represented approximately 4.1% of total investments of $183.3 billion for the Financial Services Businesses.
As of December 31, 2008, Prudential's Closed Block Business had liabilities totaling $5.096 billion under such programs, including $3.612 billion representing securities sold under agreements to repurchase and $1.484 billion representing cash collateral for loaned securities. Of the total $5.096 billion, $2.021 billion represents securities that may be returned to the company overnight requiring immediate return of the cash collateral, and the remainder has maturities ranging from 2 days to 3 months with a weighted average maturity of 44 days. As of December 31, 2008, the asset-based financing programs represented approximately 8.7% of total investments of $58.7 billion for the Closed Block Business.
Ratings-Driven Contingencies
A downgrade in the credit or financial strength ratings of Prudential Financial or its rated subsidiaries could result in additional collateral requirements or other required payments under certain agreements, which are eligible to be satisfied in
cash or by posting securities held by the subsidiaries subject to the agreements. A ratings downgrade of three ratings levels would result in estimated collateral posting requirements or payments under such agreements of approximately $200 million. In addition, a ratings downgrade by A.M. Best to A- for our domestic life insurance companies would require Prudential Insurance to post a letter of credit in the amount of $1.6 billion that we estimate would result in annual cash outflows of approximately $130 million, or collateral posting in the form of cash or securities to be held in a trust. We believe that the posting of such collateral would not be a material liquidity event for Prudential Insurance.
In addition, agreements in connection with capital management activities for our universal life insurance products would require us to post cash collateral based on tests that consider the level of 10-year credit default swap spreads on Prudential Financial's senior debt. As of December 31, 2008, when estimates of Prudential Financial's 10-year credit default swap spreads were 575 basis points, we posted $125 million of collateral under this agreement. We estimate that the collateral posting requirements could be $400 million at an effective 10-year credit default swap spread of 2,000 basis points, based on indications of forward LIBOR rates as of December 31, 2008.
Federal Home Loan Bank of New York Facility
In June 2008, Prudential Insurance became a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, or FHLBNY. Membership allows Prudential Insurance to participate in FHLBNY's product line of financial services, including funding agreements, general asset/liability management, and collateralized advances that can be used for liquidity management.
Under guidance of the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, the total amount of qualifying mortgage-related assets and U.S. Treasury securities that can be pledged as collateral by Prudential Insurance to FHLBNY is limited to 5% of the prior year's admitted assets of Prudential Insurance on a statutory basis, exclusive of separate account assets, which equates to $7.7 billion based on admitted assets as of December 31, 2007. Based on this permitted amount, the qualifying assets available at Prudential Insurance, and net of the 4.5% activity based stock we would be obligated to purchase from FHLBNY based on maximum borrowings, the estimated total borrowing capacity with the FHLBNY was $6.3 billion, as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, outstanding borrowings with FHLBNY amounted to $3.0 billion.
Lines of Credit and Other Credit Facilities
As of December 31, 2008, Prudential Financial, Prudential Insurance and Prudential Funding had unsecured committed lines of credit totaling $4.5 billion. These facilities are available to each of the borrowers, up to the aggregate committed credit, to be used for general corporate purposes. This amount includes a $2.0 billion 5-year credit facility that expires in May 2012, which includes 22 financial institutions, and an additional $2.5 billion credit facility, of which $200 million expires in December 2011 and $2.3 billion expires in December 2012, which includes 20 financial institutions. In January of 2009, a consent was executed removing Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. and Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB, as participants in these facilities. Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., which filed for bankruptcy in October 2008, had been a participant in the $2 billion facility in the amount of $60 million. Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB had been a participant in the $2.5 billion facility in the amount of $100 million. The result of this action was a reduction in the overall facility total to $4.34 billion.
Within each facility, no single financial institution has more than 15% of the total committed credit. Borrowings under the outstanding facilities will mature no later than the respective expiration dates of the facilities and will bear interest at the rates set forth in each facility agreement. We maintain these facilities primarily as back-up liquidity lines for our commercial paper programs, and there were no outstanding borrowings under any of these facilities as of December 31, 2008.
Our ability to borrow under these facilities is conditioned on the continued satisfaction of customary conditions, including maintenance at all times by Prudential Insurance of total adjusted capital of at least $5.5 billion based on statutory accounting principles prescribed under New Jersey law and Prudential Financial's maintenance of consolidated net worth of at least $12.5 billion, which for this purpose is based on GAAP stockholders' equity, excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments. Our ability to borrow under these facilities is not contingent on our credit ratings or subject to material adverse change clauses. Prudential Insurance's total adjusted capital was $7.4 billion and $11.0 billion as of September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, and we expect this amount to be well in excess of $5.5 billion as of December 31, 2008. Prudential Financial's consolidated GAAP stockholders' equity, excluding net unrealized gains and losses on investments, was $20.2 billion and $23.1 billion as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. We also use uncommitted lines of credit from financial institutions.
Credit Derivative Activities
The company has sold credit derivatives to enhance the return on our investment portfolio by creating credit exposure similar to an investment in public fixed maturity cash instruments.
In a credit derivative we sell credit protection on an identified name, or a basket of names in a first to default structure, and in return receive a quarterly premium. With single name credit default derivatives, this premium or credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the referenced name's public fixed maturity cash instruments and swap rates, at the time the agreement is executed. With first-to-default baskets, because of the additional credit risk inherent in a basket of named credits, the premium generally corresponds to a high proportion of the sum of the credit spreads of the names in the basket. If there is an event of default by the referenced name or one of the referenced names in a basket, as defined by the agreement, then we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced defaulted security or similar security. After the first default the contract is terminated and any subsequent defaults on the remaining names within such instruments require no further payment to counterparties.
The vast majority of referenced names in the credit derivatives where we have sold credit protection, as well as all the counterparties to these agreements, are investment grade credit quality and our credit derivatives generally have maturities of five years or less. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had $1.222 billion and $1.618 billion, respectively, in outstanding notional amounts of credit derivative contracts where we have sold credit protection. The Financial Services Businesses had $1.161 billion and $1.290 billion of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as a liability of $146 million and $99 million, as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. The Closed Block Business had $61 million and $328 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as a liability of $2 million and $2 million, as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively.
In addition to selling credit protection, we have purchased credit protection using credit derivatives in order to hedge specific credit exposures in our investment portfolio, including exposures relating to certain guarantees from monoline bond insurers. Substantially all of the counterparties from which the company has purchased credit protection are investment grade credit quality. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the Financial Services Businesses had $1.069 billion and $376 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as an asset of $189 million and $25 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the Closed Block Business had $309 million and $205 million of outstanding notional amounts, reported at fair value as an asset of $64 million and $5 million, respectively.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 4, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today reported a net loss for its Financial Services Businesses of $1.096 billion ($2.42 per Common share) for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to net income of $3.512 billion ($7.61 per Common share) for 2007. After-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses was $1.117 billion ($2.69 per Common share) for 2008, compared to $3.322 billion ($7.21 per Common share) for 2007. Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure as discussed below, which includes charges in the fourth quarter of 2008 for writeoffs of goodwill and declines in value of investments in certain operating joint ventures amounting to approximately $1.32 per Common share.
NEWARK, N.J. 
For the fourth quarter of 2008, the Financial Services Businesses reported a net loss of $1.640 billion ($3.85 per Common share), compared to net income of $792 million ($1.75 per Common share) for the fourth quarter of 2007. The Financial Services Businesses reported a loss, based on after-tax adjusted operating income, of $878 million ($2.04 per Common share) for the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to after-tax adjusted operating income of $787 million ($1.74 per Common share) for the fourth quarter of 2007.
        "We are very disappointed in our current quarter results, reflecting recognition of unfavorable financial and economic conditions, which unfortunately overshadowed solid fundamentals in most of our businesses. Our employees worked hard to manage through unprecedented financial market and economic conditions; and in spite of the fourth quarter setbacks, we believe that we are well positioned to manage through this challenging environment. We have strengthened reserves for some of our policy guarantees and have recorded impairments in value related to several of our acquired businesses. Our balance sheet remains strong, our
 
Page 2
 
businesses are competitive in their markets, and our sources of earnings are diverse. We believe we can maintain RBC and solvency margins for our insurance companies at levels consistent with our "AA" ratings objectives, and we have ample liquidity to fulfill our commitments. We view the positive net flows registered by our U.S. retirement and annuities businesses, the solid sales of our U.S. insurance protection businesses, and the continued growth of our international insurance businesses as validation of our products and our commitment to stand behind them. While we address the challenges of these tough times, we are confident that Prudential will emerge from the current cycle in a strong position to achieve our long-term goals," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld.
"Considering current financial market conditions, including equity market levels, interest rates and credit spreads, we continue to believe that Prudential Financial will achieve Common Stock earnings per share for 2009 in the range of $5.25 to $5.65 based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses. This expectation assumes appreciation of 2% per quarter in the S&P 500 index, commencing with its close as of December 31, 2008," Strangfeld said. The 2009 expectation is subject to change if this assumption is not realized and as discussed under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures" below.
Adjusted operating income is not calculated under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Information regarding adjusted operating income, a non-GAAP measure, is discussed later in this press release under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures," and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the most comparable GAAP measure is provided in the tables that accompany this release.
Financial Services Businesses
Prudential Financial's Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of its Financial Services Businesses, which consist of its U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance, and International Insurance and Investments divisions and its Corporate and Other operations.
 
Page 3
 
The former Financial Advisory segment, which reflected the Company's retail securities brokerage joint venture with Wachovia, has been classified as a "divested business" and excluded from adjusted operating income for all periods presented, as a result of the Company's decision to exercise its "lookback put" option with respect to the joint venture which will result in its exit from this business.
The remaining segments of the Financial Services Businesses are structured in three divisions as indicated above, for all periods presented. The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division includes the Individual Annuities, Retirement and Asset Management segments. The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division includes the Individual Life and Group Insurance segments. The International Insurance and Investments division includes the International Insurance and International Investments segments. In the following business-level discussion, adjusted operating income refers to pre-tax results.
Fourth quarter 2008 results for the Financial Services Businesses, based on pre-tax adjusted operating income, include charges within our Individual Annuities and International Investments segments and for the Company's Real Estate and Relocation business included within Corporate and Other operations, for writeoffs of goodwill and declines in value of investments in certain operating joint ventures. These charges had an aggregate negative pre-tax impact of $653 million. The charges reflect valuation of the affected goodwill and joint ventures as of December 31, 2008 based on measures that consider current market values and market-based discount rates applicable to expected future cash flows.
The reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $975 million for the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to adjusted operating income of $500 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division
        The Individual Annuities segment reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $1.039 billion in the current quarter, compared to adjusted operating income of $171 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include charges of $498 million representing a net increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs reflecting an updated estimate of profitability for this business, and $409 million representing a net increase in costs
 
Page 4
 
associated with guaranteed minimum death and income benefits, in each case largely driven by declines in customer account values through December 31, 2008. Results for the year-ago quarter included a $16 million net benefit from adjustment of these items to recognize experience in that period. Mark-to-market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with living benefits, after related amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, resulted in a net charge of $130 million to current quarter adjusted operating income, compared to a net benefit of $1 million in the year-ago quarter. In addition, the current quarter loss includes a charge of $97 million to write off the entire balance of goodwill associated with the Company's acquisition of Allstate's variable annuity business in 2006. Excluding the effect of the foregoing items, adjusted operating income for the Individual Annuities segment declined $58 million from the year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting lower fees driven by market value declines in customer account values.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $133 million for the current quarter, compared to $131 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited $33 million from a refinement of reserves for traditional group annuity business based on an actuarial review of beneficiary census data. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income of the Retirement segment was $31 million below the level of the year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting lower fees associated with market value declines in customer account values.
The Asset Management segment reported a loss of $69 million for the current quarter, compared to adjusted operating income of $198 million for the year-ago quarter. The decrease came primarily from unfavorable results from the segment's proprietary investing activities, which included current quarter losses of approximately $150 million from investment results in fixed income and equity investments compared to income of approximately $30 million from corresponding investment results in the year-ago quarter. In addition, current quarter results reflected a lower contribution from performance-based fees, primarily related to institutional real estate funds, than the year-ago quarter.
The reported adjusted operating income of $78 million for the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to $195 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division
 
Page 5
 
The Individual Life segment reported adjusted operating income of $9 million for the current quarter, compared to $129 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease came primarily from higher net amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other items relating to current quarter experience, together with related costs, driven by unfavorable separate account performance in the current quarter. In addition, current quarter results reflected lower fees associated with market value declines in customer account values.
The Group Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $69 million in the current quarter, compared to $66 million in the year-ago quarter. More favorable group life claims experience in the current quarter was partly offset by a lower contribution from investment results.
The reported a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $13 million for the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to adjusted operating income of $393 million in the year-ago quarter.
International Insurance and Investments division
The International Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $421 million for the current quarter, an increase of $68 million from the year-ago quarter. The segment's Life Planner insurance operations reported adjusted operating income of $261 million for the current quarter, an increase of $29 million from the year-ago quarter, reflecting continued business growth together with an improved contribution from investment results reflecting portfolio strategies including duration lengthening. Results also benefited from more favorable mortality experience in the current quarter. The segment's Gibraltar Life operations reported adjusted operating income of $160 million for the current quarter, an increase of $39 million from the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results included $9 million income from the sale of a former branch office property. Gibraltar Life's current quarter results benefited from an improved contribution from investment results, reflecting increased investing in U.S. dollar-based securities, increased exposure to corporate securities, and investment duration lengthening. In addition, mortality experience was more favorable than that of the year-ago quarter. Foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of the Company's currency hedging programs, did not have a significant effect on the comparison of results for the segment's international insurance businesses.
 
Page 6
 
The International Investments segment reported a loss of $434 million for the current quarter, compared to adjusted operating income of $40 million in the year-ago quarter. The current quarter loss includes charges totaling $316 million to record declines in value of several joint venture investments, and a charge of $123 million to write off the segment's entire balance of goodwill, relating to several acquired businesses. Excluding these charges, adjusted operating income from the International Investments segment decreased $35 million, primarily due to less favorable results from the segment's Korean asset management operations.
resulted in a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $264 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to a loss of $52 million in the year-ago quarter. The current quarter loss includes a charge of $117 million to write off the entire balance of goodwill for the Company's real estate and relocation business. Excluding that charge, the real estate and relocation business reported a loss of $42 million for the current quarter, compared to a loss of $8 million in the year-ago quarter, reflecting unfavorable residential real estate market conditions. The remainder of the increased loss from corporate and other operations came primarily from increased interest expense, net of investment income, reflecting the Company's issuance of $1.5 billion of junior subordinated long-term debt securities in 2008. The increase in net financing costs was partly offset by a $41 million benefit to current quarter results from the repurchase of $853 million original principal amount of Prudential Financial convertible debt securities due in 2037 which were offered to the Company by certain holders in individually negotiated transactions at a discount.
Corporate and Other operations
amounted to $558 billion at December 31, 2008, compared to $648 billion a year earlier.
Assets under management
Theof the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $1.640 billion for the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to net income of $792 million in the year-ago quarter.
net loss
The current quarter net loss includes $511 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments. Net realized investment losses in the current quarter include $1.192 billion of losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired investments and $304 million representing decreases in market value of certain externally managed investments in the
 
Page 7
 
European market. The losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities reflect $570 million on fixed maturity investments, including $214 million relating to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, and $601 million of impairments on equity securities. The foregoing realized investment losses were partially offset by $894 million net increases in market value of derivatives used in the Company's hedging and investment duration management programs which were primarily driven by changes in interest rates, and by net realized gains from general account portfolio activities during the quarter.
At December 31, 2008, gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $11.251 billion, including $9.036 billion on investment-grade securities. Gross unrealized losses include $1.781 billion related to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses at December 31, 2008 include $7.875 billion of declines in value of 20% or more of amortized cost, of which $5.270 billion represents such declines in value for three months or more. An additional $1.467 billion of the gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2008 represent declines in value ranging from 15% to 20% of amortized cost. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $1.970 billion at year-end 2007. Net unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $6.567 billion at December 31, 2008, compared to net unrealized gains of $1.332 billion at December 31, 2007.
        The net loss for the current quarter also reflects pre-tax decreases of $815 million in recorded asset values and $481 million in recorded liabilities representing changes in value which will ultimately accrue to contractholders. These changes primarily represent interest rate related mark-to-market adjustments. The net loss for the current quarter also includes $230 million of pre-tax losses from divested businesses, primarily reflecting a $209 million pre-tax loss from the Company's retail securities brokerage joint venture with Wachovia and related costs. On January 1, 2008, Wachovia combined the acquired retail securities brokerage business of A.G. Edwards, Inc. with the joint venture. The Company's estimated share of the results of the joint venture and
 
Page 8
 
transition costs, subsequent to this combination, is based on a diluted ownership level which is currently being finalized. As previously announced, the Company intends to exercise its right under the "lookback" option to put its joint venture interests to Wells Fargo, which acquired Wachovia on December 31, 2008. Under the terms of the joint venture agreements, closing of the put transaction would occur on or about January 1, 2010. The current quarter loss reflects absorption, through our estimated share of joint venture results, of $120 million of costs associated with an earlier settlement with regulators of investigations concerning the underwriting, sale, and subsequent auction of certain auction rate securities by Wachovia Securities, as well as $44 million of transition costs related to Wachovia's acquisition of A. G. Edwards.
In addition, net income for the current quarter includes income from discontinued operations of $28 million (net of related taxes).
Net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the year-ago quarter included $91 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments, decreases of $10 million in recorded assets and $9 million in recorded liabilities for which changes in value will ultimately accrue to contractholders, and losses of $1 million from divested businesses, in each case before income taxes. In addition, net income for the year-ago quarter included income from discontinued operations of $11 million (net of related taxes).
Closed Block Business
Prudential's Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of its Closed Block Business.
The Closed Block Business includes our in-force participating life insurance and annuity policies, and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies.
The Closed Block Business reported income from continuing operations before income taxes of $117 million for the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to $130 million for the year-ago quarter. The Closed Block Business reported net income for the fourth quarter of 2008 of $74 million, compared to $79 million for the year-ago quarter.
 
Page 9
 
For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Closed Block Business reported income from continuing operations before income taxes of $16 million, compared to $290 million for 2007. The Closed Block Business reported net income of $23 million for 2008 compared to $192 million for 2007.
Consolidated Results
There is no legal separation of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock are both common stockholders of Prudential Financial, Inc.
On a consolidated basis, which includes the results of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, Prudential Financial, Inc. reported a net loss of $1.566 billion for the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to net income of $871 million for the year-ago quarter, and reported a net loss of $1.073 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to net income of $3.704 billion for 2007.
Share Repurchases and Issuance
As previously announced, in light of recent market volatility and extraordinary events and developments affecting financial markets generally, including market conditions for issuance of certain capital instruments such as hybrid securities, the Company suspended all purchases of its Common Stock under its existing share repurchase program effective October 10, 2008. From the commencement of share repurchases in May 2002, through December 31, 2008, the Company acquired 214 million shares of its Common Stock at a total cost of $13.049 billion.
Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures
        Certain of the statements included in this release including (but not limited to) those in the fourth paragraph hereof, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U. S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "believes,"
 
Page 10
 
"anticipates," "includes," "plans," "assumes," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "should," "will," "shall," or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) general economic, market and political conditions, including the performance and fluctuations of fixed income, equity, real estate, and other financial markets, particularly in light of the stress experienced by the global financial markets that began in the second half of 2007 and substantially increased in the second half of 2008; (2) the availability and cost of external financing for our operations, which has been affected by the stress experienced by the global financial markets; (3) interest rate fluctuations; (4) reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims; (5) differences between actual experience regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, surrender experience, interest rates or market returns and the assumptions we use in pricing our products, establishing liabilities and reserves or for other purposes; (6) changes in our assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, valuation of business acquired or goodwill; (7) changes in our claims-paying or credit ratings; (8) investment losses and defaults; (9) competition in our product lines and for personnel; (10) changes in tax law; (11) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations; (12) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; (13) regulatory or legislative changes , including government actions in response to the stress experienced by the global financial markets; (14) adverse determinations in litigation or regulatory matters and our exposure to contingent liabilities, including in connection with our divestiture or winding down of businesses; (15) domestic or international military actions, natural or man-made disasters including terrorist activities or pandemic disease, or other events resulting in
 
Page 11
 
catastrophic loss of life; (16) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures in identifying, monitoring and managing risks; (17) effects of acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including possible difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions; (18) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; (19) changes in assumptions for retirement expense; (20) Prudential Financial, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends or distributions in light of our ratings objectives and/or applicable regulatory restrictions; and (21) risks due to the lack of legal separation between our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and is under no obligation, to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net," as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments. A significant element of realized investment gains and losses are impairments and credit-related and interest rate-related gains and losses. Impairments and losses from sales of credit-impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles, can vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses, such as interest rate-related gains or losses, is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities as well as our tax profile.
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities related to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, investment gains and losses on certain
 
Page 12
 
investments supporting insurance liabilities that are classified as other trading account assets, and counterparty credit losses on derivative positions experienced during the third quarter of 2008.
Adjusted operating income also excludes investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes, because these recorded changes in asset and liability values will ultimately accrue to contractholders. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. In addition, adjusted operating income excludes the results of divested businesses, which are not relevant to our ongoing operations. Discontinued operations, which is presented as a separate component of net income under GAAP, is also excluded from adjusted operating income.
We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of the results of operations of the Financial Services Businesses by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. However, adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and the excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. The schedules accompanying this release provide a reconciliation of adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses to income from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP.
Our expectation of Common Stock earnings per share is based on after-tax adjusted operating income. Because we do not predict future realized investment gains / losses or recorded changes in asset and liability values that will ultimately accrue to contractholders, we cannot provide a measure of our Common Stock earnings per share expectation based on income from continuing operations of the Financial Services Businesses, which is the GAAP measure most comparable to adjusted operating income.
 
Page 13
 
The information referred to above, as well as the risks of our businesses described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2008, should be considered by readers when reviewing forward-looking statements contained in this release. Additional historical information relating to our financial performance is located on our Web site at .
www.investor.prudential.com
Earnings Conference Call
Members of Prudential's senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, February 5, 2009 at 11 a.m. ET, to discuss with the investment community the Company's fourth quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Company's Investor Relations Web site at: www.investor.prudential.com. Please log on fifteen minutes early in the event necessary software needs to be downloaded. The call will remain on the Investor Relations Web site for replay through February 20. Institutional investors, analysts, and other members of the professional financial community are invited to listen to the call and participate in Q&A by dialing (877) 777-1971 (domestic callers) or (612) 332-0226 (international callers). All others are encouraged to dial into the conference call in listen-only mode, using the same numbers. To listen to a replay of the conference call starting at 2:00 p.m. on February 5, through February 12, dial (800) 475-6701 (domestic callers) or (320) 365-3844 (international callers). The access code for the replay is 975677.
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $558 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2008, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Leveraging its heritage of life insurance and asset management expertise, Prudential is focused on helping approximately 50 million individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth. The Company's well-known Rock symbol is an icon of strength, stability, expertise and innovation that has stood the test of time. Prudential's businesses offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. For more information, please visit .
www.news.prudential.com
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, investment gains and losses on certain investments supporting insurance liabilities that are classified as other trading account assets, and counterparty credit losses on derivative positions experienced during the third quarter of 2008.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
This Quarterly Financial Supplement reflects the following for all periods presented herein:
Results of the company's former Financial Advisory segment, primarily reflecting the company's investment in the Wachovia Securities retail securities brokerage joint venture, have been classified as a "divested business" and excluded from adjusted operating income as a result of the company's decision to exercise the lookback put option under the joint venture agreement.
In addition, the company has realigned certain of its remaining business segments into the following Division structure:
The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management Division consists of the following segments:
Individual Annuities segment
Retirement segment
Asset Management segment
The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance Division consists of the following segments:
Individual Life segment
Group Insurance segment
There were no changes to the International Insurance and Investments Division. Corporate and Other Operations reflect the impact of the reclassification of results of the former Financial Advisory segment as a divested business as discussed above.
The Individual Life Sales measure has been modified, for all periods presented, to reflect Annualized New Business Premiums which represent annualized scheduled premiums plus 10% of excess (unscheduled) and single premiums from new sales. The company believes this new measure provides a more meaningful presentation of sales results and trends than the former measure, which included 100% of excess (unscheduled) or single premiums.
Assets and liabilities, and certain statistical information reported herein reflect reclassifications to conform to current reporting practices.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
1. Adjusted operating income before income taxes:
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses that excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net", as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities; change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; results of divested businesses and discontinued operations; and the related tax effects thereof. Adjusted operating income includes equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and the related tax effects thereof. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and are adjusted for the items above as well.
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, investment gains and losses on certain investments supporting insurance liabilities that are classified as other trading account assets, and counterparty credit losses on derivative positions experienced during the third quarter of 2008.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
2. After-tax adjusted operating income:
Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes.
3. Annualized New Business Premiums:
Premiums from new sales that are expected to be collected over a one year period. Group insurance annualized new business premiums exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage issued under our Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance contract, and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts. Group insurance annualized new business premiums include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. Group disability amounts include long-term care products. Excess (unscheduled) and single premium business for the company's domestic individual life and international insurance operations are included in annualized new business premiums based on a 10% credit.
4. Assets Under Management:
Fair market value or account value of assets which Prudential manages directly in proprietary products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, in separate accounts, wrap-fee products and the general account, and assets invested in investment options included in the Company's products that are managed by third party sub-managers (i.e., the non-proprietary investment options in the Company's products).
5. Attributed Equity:
Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business.
6. Book value per share of Common Stock:
Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by the number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis.
7. Borrowings - Capital Debt:
Borrowings that are or will be used for capital requirements at Prudential Financial, Inc as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial, Inc., and subsidiary borrowings, utilized for capital requirements.
8. Borrowings - Investment Related:
Debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate, and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences.
9. Borrowings - Securities Business Related:
Debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker-dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations including our discontinued commercial mortgage conduit related activities.
10. Borrowings - Specified Other Businesses:
Borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, the individual annuity business, real estate franchises, and relocation services.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
11. Client Assets:
Fair market value of assets in client accounts of International brokerage operations, Prudential Bank and mortgage loan servicing business, that are not included in Assets Under Management. Prudential does not receive a management or administrative fee on these assets, but may receive a fee for executing trades, custody or recordkeeping services.
12. Earned Premiums:
The portion of a premium, net of any amount ceded, that represents coverage already provided or that belongs to the insurer based on the part of the policy period that has passed.
13. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock:
Net income (loss) for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments modify earnings available to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. Earnings per share of Common Stock based on adjusted operating income (loss) of the Financial Services Businesses reflects these adjustments as well. In the periods where there are losses after taxes on either an adjusted operating or continuing operations basis, the diluted share count used in the diluted earnings per share calculation is equal to the weighted average basic common shares as all potential common shares are anti-dilutive.
14. Full Service:
The Full Service line of business provides retirement plan products and services to public, private and not-for-profit organizations. This business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, participant education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investment funds. This business mainly services defined contribution and defined benefit plans; non-qualified plans are also serviced. For clients with both defined contribution and defined benefit plans, integrated recordkeeping services are available. For participants leaving these plans, a range of rollover products are provided through a broker-dealer bank.
15. Full Service Stable Value:
Our Full Service Stable Value products represent fixed rate options on investment funds offered to customers. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time. Upon termination these products repay account balances at market value immediately or may be liquidated at book value over time. Substantially all of these products are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual resets giving effect to previous investment experience. These products are issued through the general account, separate accounts or client-owned trusts. Profits from partially participating general account products result from the spread between the rate of return on investment assets and the interest rates credited to the customer, less expenses. For fully participating products, generally subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee, we earn fee income.
16. General Account:
Invested assets and policyholder liabilities and reserves for which the Company bears the investment risk. Excludes assets recognized for statutory purposes that are specifically allocated to a separate account. General account assets also include assets of the parent company, Prudential Financial, Inc.
17. Gibraltar Life Advisors:
Insurance representatives for Gibraltar Life.
18. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Administrative Operating Expense Ratios:
Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income.
19. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Benefits Ratios:
Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income.
20. Individual Annuity Account Values in General Account and Separate Account:
Amounts represent the breakdown of invested customer funds in annuities either written or reinsured by the Company.
21. Insurance and Annuity Benefits:
Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, and losses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
22. International Life Planners:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations outside the United States, excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors. Excludes Life Planners associated with discontinued Philippine operations.
23. Non-recourse and Limited-recourse Debt:
Limited and non-recourse borrowing is where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets.
24. Operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income):
Adjusted operating income after-tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits.
An alternative measure to operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income) is return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations). Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) represents income from continuing operations after-tax as determined in accordance with GAAP (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average total attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses. Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) is -5.46% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, 16.20% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, -39.94% for the three months ended December 31, 2008, -2.10% for the three months ended September 30, 2008, 11.28% for the three months ended June 30, 2008, 1.58% for the three months ended March 31, 2008 and 14.43% for the three months ended December 31, 2007.
25. Policy Persistency - Group Insurance:
Percentage of the premiums in force at the end of the prior year that are still in force at the end of the period (excluding Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Prudential Employee Benefit Plan).
26. Policy Persistency - International Insurance:
13 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their second policy year. 25 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their third policy year.
27. Prudential Agents:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations in the United States.
28. Prudential Agent productivity:
Commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents under contract for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. Excludes commissions on new sales by Prudential Agents hired or departed during the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
29. Ratio of capital debt to total capitalization:
For the purposes of this ratio, we measure "debt" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs and 25% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and we measure "total capitalization" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs, 100% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and attributed equity of the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension / postretirement benefits.
30. Separate Accounts:
Assets of our insurance companies allocated under certain policies and contracts that are segregated from the general account and other separate accounts. The policyholder or contractholder predominantly bears the risk of investments held in a separate account.
31. Wrap-Fee Products:
Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the customer are generally invested in other investment products such as mutual funds.
 
 
RATINGS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
INSURANCE CLAIMS PAYING RATINGS
as of February 4, 2009
 
 
INVESTOR INFORMATION:
 
Common Stock:
Common Stock of Prudential Financial, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PRU.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
December 31, 2008
($ millions)
 
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
 
 
In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $5.356 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2008 were $1.718 billion of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities.
 
 
Excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $240 million and fair value of $222 million. Based on amortized cost, 84% of these securities have credit ratings of AAA, 2% have A credit ratings, and the remaining 14% have credit ratings of BBB or below. As of December 31, 2008, included within these asset-backed securities are securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages with amortized cost and fair value of $4 million, all of which have AAA credit ratings, with $3 million in the 2006 vintage and $1 million in the 2003 vintage. Also included are collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost and fair value of $10 million, with none secured by sub-prime mortgages. Also excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $0.9 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contract holders. An additional $398 million of asset-backed securities as of December 31, 2008 are classified as other trading, including $27 million held outside the general account, 89% of which have credit ratings of AAA and 11% of which have credit ratings of BB, and $371 million included in our general account, 77% of which have credit ratings of A or above and the remaining 23% virtually all have BBB credit ratings.
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, 98% of the general account residential mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AA or above. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $49 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining $192 million of residential mortgage-backed securities; and 92% have credit ratings of A or above, and the remaining 8% with BB credit ratings or higher.
Excluded from the above are residential mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $770 million and fair value of $778 million, all of which have AAA credit ratings. Also excluded from the above are $708 million of residential mortgage-backed securities classified as trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and carried at fair value, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contract holders.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
December 31, 2008
($ millions)
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
 
 
Excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $28 million and fair value of $22 million, 75% of which have credit ratings of AA or better and the remaining 25% have credit ratings of BB and below. Also excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $2.3 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contract holders. An additional $1 million of commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account as of December 31, 2008 are classified as other trading, all of which have AAA credit ratings.
(d) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage and other loans:
 
 
As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of general account investments in commercial mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 58% and 1.89 times, respectively.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
December 31, 2008
($ millions)
 
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
 
 
In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $4.438 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business as of December 31, 2008 were $1.703 million of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities.
 
 
Excluded from the table above are $25 million of asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, all of which have BBB credit ratings or above as of December 31, 2008.
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, 83% of the residential mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of AAA. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $146 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining $543 million of residential mortgage-backed securities and 96% have credit ratings of AAA and the remaining 4% have BBB credit ratings.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
December 31, 2008
($ millions)
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
 
 
(d) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage and other loans:
 
 
As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of general account investments in commercial mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business was 53% and 1.95 times, respectively.


