FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20091104162240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.0, a news release announcing third quarter 2009 results.
See also Item 7.01 below, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 4, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today reported net income of its Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $1.090 billion ($2.35 per Common share) for the third quarter of 2009, compared to a net loss of $118 million (25 cents per Common share) for the year-ago quarter. After-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses was $733 million ($1.59 per Common share) for the third quarter of 2009, compared to $430 million ($1.02 per Common share) for the third quarter of 2008. Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure as discussed below.
NEWARK, N.J. 
For the first nine months of 2009, net income for the Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. amounted to $1.623 billion ($3.72 per Common share) compared to $516 million ($1.26 per Common share) for the first nine months of 2008. After-tax adjusted operating income for the first nine months of 2009 for the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $1.986 billion ($4.53 per Common share), compared to $1.966 billion ($4.55 per Common share) for the first nine months of 2008.
"Our current quarter results reflect underlying strength in our diversified portfolio of businesses, as well as continuing improvements in financial markets. We believe the current environment provides growth opportunities for the strongest companies. We are continuing to build our franchise as clients look to Prudential as a trusted partner offering innovative solutions for financial security. Sales and net flows were solid across our domestic businesses, with variable annuity sales achieving record levels for the second consecutive quarter. International insurance sales were strong as well, benefiting from expanded distribution of our life insurance protection
 
Page 3
 
products. With uncertainties still facing the economy and markets, we've bolstered our financial strength and flexibility through long-term debt and equity issues of more than $4 billion this year, and feel that we are well positioned to pursue opportunities to grow our businesses," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld.
"Considering our results for the first nine months of the year and current financial market conditions, including equity market levels, interest rates and credit spreads, we believe that Prudential Financial will achieve Common Stock earnings per share for 2009 in the range of $5.40 to $5.60 based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses. This expectation assumes stable equity markets over the remainder of the year," Strangfeld said. The 2009 expectation is subject to change if this assumption is not realized and as discussed under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures" below.
Adjusted operating income is not calculated under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Information regarding adjusted operating income, a non-GAAP measure, is discussed later in this press release under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures," and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the most comparable GAAP measure is provided in the tables that accompany this release.
Financial Services Businesses
Prudential Financial's Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of its Financial Services Businesses, which consist of its U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance, and International Insurance and Investments divisions and its Corporate and Other operations.
In the following business-level discussion, adjusted operating income refers to pre-tax results.
 
Page 4
 
The reported adjusted operating income of $314 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared to a loss of $182 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division
The Individual Annuities segment reported adjusted operating income of $166 million in the current quarter, compared to a loss of $307 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited $185 million from net reductions in reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and $26 million from a net reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, reflecting an updated estimate of profitability for this business including updates of actuarial assumptions based on an annual review. These benefits to results were largely driven by increases in customer account values during the current quarter. Results for the year-ago quarter included a net charge of $418 million from similar adjustment of these items to reflect an update of estimated profitability including changes in actuarial assumptions based on an annual review. Mark-to-market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with living benefits, after amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, resulted in a net charge of $9 million to current quarter adjusted operating income. In addition, current quarter results included a $140 million charge for mark-to-market of hedging positions initiated in 2009 to mitigate exposure to declines in capital from adverse financial market conditions. Results for the year-ago quarter included net charges of $37 million from mark-to-market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with living benefits. Excluding the effect of the foregoing items, adjusted operating income for the Individual Annuities segment declined $44 million from the year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting higher costs associated with guaranteed benefits and greater current period expenses due to increased sales.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $119 million for the current quarter, compared to $133 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include an $8 million charge from a net increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs based on an annual review of actuarial assumptions, while results for the year-ago quarter benefited $12 million from net refinements reflecting a similar annual review. Excluding these items, adjusted operating income of the Retirement segment increased $6 million from the year-ago quarter, as a greater contribution from investment results was partially offset by less favorable case experience on traditional retirement business and lower fees associated with customer account values.
 
Page 5
 
The Asset Management segment reported adjusted operating income of $29 million for the current quarter, compared to a loss of $8 million in the year-ago quarter. Losses from investment results associated with proprietary investing activities amounted to approximately $20 million in the current quarter compared to approximately $100 million in the year-ago quarter, with the latter driven largely by fixed income and equity fund investments that were subsequently redeemed. The reduction in losses from proprietary investing activities was partially offset by unfavorable current quarter results from commercial mortgage activities, and by lower performance-based fees primarily related to institutional real estate funds.
The reported adjusted operating income of $307 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared to $339 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division
The Individual Life segment reported adjusted operating income of $243 million for the current quarter, compared to $238 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited from a $55 million net reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs reflecting updates of our actuarial assumptions based on an annual review, while results for the year-ago quarter included a net benefit from similar items totaling $79 million. Current quarter adjusted operating income also included $30 million from compensation received based on multi-year profitability of third party products we distribute, while results for the year-ago quarter included a similar benefit amounting to $53 million. Excluding these items, adjusted operating income increased $52 million from a year ago, as results benefited from lower net amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other items driven by favorable current quarter separate account performance.
 
Page 6
 
The Group Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $64 million in the current quarter, compared to $101 million in the year-ago quarter. Results for the year-ago quarter benefited $13 million from refinements of group disability reserves based on an annual review, while a similar current year review had no net impact on results. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income was $24 million below the level of the year-ago quarter, reflecting less favorable group life and disability claims experience.
The reported adjusted operating income of $513 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared to $497 million in the year-ago quarter.
International Insurance and Investments division
The International Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $500 million for the current quarter, an increase of $40 million from the year-ago quarter. Adjusted operating income of the segment's Life Planner insurance operations increased $17 million, to $310 million for the current quarter from $293 million in the year-ago quarter, reflecting continued business growth. The segment's Gibraltar Life operations reported adjusted operating income of $190 million for the current quarter, compared to $167 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results for Gibraltar Life included $25 million from the former Yamato Life business acquired on May 1, 2009. This contribution included approximately $15 million largely related to initial surrenders of policies following the restructuring of the business, essentially consistent with our overall expectations. Foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of the Company's currency hedging programs, did not have a significant effect on the comparison of results for the segment's international insurance businesses.
The International Investments segment reported adjusted operating income of $13 million for the current quarter, compared to $37 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease resulted primarily from less favorable results from the segment's global commodities operations, which benefited in the year-ago quarter from income of $14 million from market value changes in securities held relating to trading exchange memberships.
 
Page 7
 
resulted in a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $201 million in the third quarter of 2009, compared to a loss of $38 million in the year-ago quarter. The increased loss reflected increased interest expense, net of investment income, reflecting the negative spread associated with the investment of debt issuance proceeds in cash and short-term investments, as well as a greater level of capital debt. Higher expenses, including certain liabilities that are impacted by changes in equity and other markets, also contributed to the increased loss. The Company's real estate and relocation business reported adjusted operating income of $6 million for the current quarter, compared to a loss of $4 million in the year-ago quarter.
Corporate and Other operations
amounted to $641 billion at September 30, 2009, compared to $602 billion a year earlier and $558 billion at December 31, 2008.
Assets under management
of the Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. amounted to $1.090 billion for the third quarter of 2009, compared to a net loss of $118 million in the year-ago quarter.
Net income
Current quarter net income includes $234 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments. Net realized investment losses in the current quarter reflect $360 million of losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired investments. The losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities include $292 million on fixed maturity investments, including $149 million relating to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, $62 million of impairments on equity securities, and $6 million of impairments on other investments. The foregoing realized investment losses were partially offset by increases in market value of certain externally managed investments in the European market.
 
Page 8
 
At September 30, 2009, gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $4.756 billion, including $3.064 billion on investment-grade securities. Gross unrealized losses include $1.507 billion related to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses at September 30, 2009 include $2.583 billion of declines in value of 20% or more of amortized cost, of which $2.469 billion represents such declines in value for three months or more. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $11.251 billion at year-end 2008. Net unrealized gains on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $979 million at September 30, 2009, compared to net unrealized losses of $6.567 billion at December 31, 2008.
Net income for the current quarter also reflects pre-tax increases of $694 million in recorded asset values and $458 million in recorded liabilities representing changes in value which are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. These changes primarily represent interest rate related mark-to-market adjustments. Net income for the current quarter also includes $25 million of pre-tax income from divested businesses, primarily reflecting $22 million pre-tax income from the Company's retail securities brokerage joint venture with Wachovia and related costs. On January 1, 2008, Wachovia combined the acquired retail securities brokerage business of A.G. Edwards, Inc. with the joint venture. The Company's estimated share of the results of the joint venture and transition costs, subsequent to this combination, is based on a diluted ownership level which is currently being finalized. As previously announced, the Company exercised its right under the "lookback" option to put its joint venture interests to Wells Fargo, which acquired Wachovia on December 31, 2008. Under the terms of the joint venture agreements, closing of the put transaction would occur on or about January 1, 2010.
Net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the year-ago quarter included $547 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments, decreases of $534 million in recorded assets and $388 million in recorded liabilities for which changes in value are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders, and a loss of $219 million from divested businesses, in each case before income taxes.
 
Page 9
 
Closed Block Business
Prudential's Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of its Closed Block Business.
The Closed Block Business includes our in-force participating life insurance and annuity policies, and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies.
The Closed Block Business reported a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $16 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared to a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $113 million for the year-ago quarter. The reduced loss reflects a decrease in dividends paid and accrued to policyholders, including the impact of a reduction in the 2009 dividend scale.
The Closed Block Business reported net losses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $8 million for the third quarter of 2009 and $58 million for the year-ago quarter.
For the first nine months of 2009, the Closed Block Business reported a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $572 million, compared to a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $101 million for the first nine months of 2008. The Closed Block Business reported net losses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $364 million for the first nine months of 2009 and $51 million for the first nine months of 2008.
 
Page 10
 
Consolidated Results
There is no legal separation of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock are both common stockholders of Prudential Financial, Inc.
On a consolidated basis, which includes the results of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, Prudential Financial, Inc. reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $1.082 billion for the third quarter of 2009 compared to a net loss of $176 million for the year-ago quarter, and reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $1.259 billion for the first nine months of 2009 and $465 million for the first nine months of 2008.
Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures
Certain of the statements included in this release including (but not limited to) those in the fourth paragraph hereof, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U. S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "includes," "plans," "assumes," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "should," "will," "shall," or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) general economic, market and political conditions, including the performance and fluctuations of fixed
 
Page 11
 
income, equity, real estate and other financial markets, particularly in light of severe economic conditions and the severe stress experienced by the global financial markets since the second half of 2007; (2) the availability and cost of external financing for our operations, which has been affected by the stress experienced by the global financial markets; (3) interest rate fluctuations; (4) reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims; (5) differences between actual experience regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, surrender experience, interest rates or market returns and the assumptions we use in pricing our products, establishing liabilities and reserves or for other purposes; (6) changes in our assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, valuation of business acquired or goodwill; (7) changes in our claims-paying or credit ratings; (8) investment losses, defaults and counterparty non-performance; (9) competition in our product lines and for personnel; (10) changes in tax law; (11) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations; (12) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; (13) regulatory or legislative changes, including government actions in response to the stress experienced by the global financial markets; (14) adverse determinations in litigation or regulatory matters and our exposure to contingent liabilities, including in connection with our divestiture or winding down of businesses; (15) domestic or international military actions, natural or man-made disasters including terrorist activities or pandemic disease, or other events resulting in catastrophic loss of life; (16) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures in identifying, monitoring and managing risks; (17) effects of acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including possible difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions; (18) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; (19) changes in assumptions for retirement expense; (20) Prudential Financial, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends or distributions in light of our ratings objectives and/or applicable regulatory restrictions; and (21) risks due to the lack of legal separation between our Financial Services Businesses and our
 
Page 12
 
Closed Block Business. As noted above, the period since the second half of 2007 has been characterized by extreme adverse market and economic conditions. The foregoing risks are even more pronounced in these unprecedented market and economic conditions. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and is under no obligation, to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net," as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments. A significant element of realized investment gains and losses are impairments and credit-related and interest rate-related gains and losses. Impairments and losses from sales of credit-impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles, can vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses, such as interest rate-related gains or losses, is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities as well as our tax and capital profile.
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities related to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
 
Page 13
 
Adjusted operating income also excludes investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes, because these recorded changes in asset and liability values are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. In addition, adjusted operating income excludes the results of divested businesses, which are not relevant to our ongoing operations. Discontinued operations, which is presented as a separate component of net income under GAAP, is also excluded from adjusted operating income.
We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of the results of operations of the Financial Services Businesses by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. However, adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and the adjustments made to derive adjusted operating income are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. The schedules accompanying this release provide a reconciliation of adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses to income from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP.
Our expectation of Common Stock earnings per share is based on after-tax adjusted operating income. Because we do not predict future realized investment gains / losses or recorded changes in asset and liability values that are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders, we cannot provide a measure of our Common Stock earnings per share expectation based on income from continuing operations of the Financial Services Businesses, which is the GAAP measure most comparable to adjusted operating income.
The information referred to above, as well as the risks of our businesses described in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, should be considered by readers when reviewing forward-looking statements contained in this release. Additional historical information relating to our financial performance is located on our Web site at .
www.investor.prudential.com
 
Page 14
 
Earnings Conference Call
Members of Prudential's senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, November 5, 2009 at 11 a.m. ET, to discuss with the investment community the Company's third quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Company's Investor Relations Web site at: . Please log on fifteen minutes early in the event necessary software needs to be downloaded. The call will remain on the Investor Relations Web site for replay through November 20. Institutional investors, analysts, and other members of the professional financial community are invited to listen to the call and participate in Q&A by dialing (877) 777-1971 (domestic callers) or (612) 332-0226 (international callers). All others are encouraged to dial into the conference call in listen-only mode, using the same numbers. To listen to a replay of the conference call starting at 2:30 p.m. on November 5, through November 12, dial (800) 475-6701 (domestic callers) or (320) 365-3844 (international callers). The access code for the replay is 986906.
www.investor.prudential.com
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $641 billion of assets under management as of September 30, 2009, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Leveraging its heritage of life insurance and asset management expertise, Prudential is focused on helping approximately 50 million individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth. The Company's well-known Rock symbol is an icon of strength, stability, expertise and innovation that has stood the test of time. Prudential's businesses offer a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. For more information, please visit .
www.news.prudential.com
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Reference is made to Prudential Financial, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for general information, and consolidated financial information, regarding Prudential Financial, Inc., including its Closed Block Business. All financial information in this document is unaudited.
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Quarterly Financial Supplement reflects the addition or modification of certain measures for the Individual Annuities segment in order to provide a more meaningful presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality (4):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
1. Adjusted operating income before income taxes:
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses that excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net", as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities; change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; results of divested businesses and discontinued operations; earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests; and the related tax effects thereof. Adjusted operating income includes equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and the related tax effects thereof. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and are adjusted for the items above as well.
Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
2. After-tax adjusted operating income:
Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes.
3. Annualized New Business Premiums:
Premiums from new sales that are expected to be collected over a one year period. Group insurance annualized new business premiums exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage issued under our Service members' Group Life Insurance contract, and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts. Group insurance annualized new business premiums include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. Group disability amounts include long-term care products. Excess (unscheduled) and single premium business for the company's domestic individual life and international insurance operations are included in annualized new business premiums based on a 10% credit.
4. Assets Under Management:
Fair market value or account value of assets which Prudential manages directly in proprietary products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, in separate accounts, wrap-fee products and the general account, and assets invested in investment options included in the Company's products that are managed by third party sub-managers (i.e., the non-proprietary investment options in the Company's products).
5. Attributed Equity:
Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business or attributable to noncontrolling interests.
6. Book value per share of Common Stock:
Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by the number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis.
7. Borrowings - Capital Debt:
Borrowings that are or will be used for capital requirements at Prudential Financial, Inc as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial, Inc., and subsidiary borrowings, utilized for capital requirements.
8. Borrowings - Investment Related:
Debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate, and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences.
9. Borrowings - Securities Business Related:
Debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker-dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations including our discontinued commercial mortgage conduit related activities.
10. Borrowings - Specified Other Businesses:
Borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, the individual annuity business, real estate franchises, and relocation services.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
11. Client Assets:
Fair market value of assets in client accounts of International brokerage operations, Prudential Bank and mortgage loan servicing business, that are not included in Assets Under Management. Prudential does not receive a management or administrative fee on these assets, but may receive a fee for executing trades, custody or recordkeeping services.
12. Earned Premiums:
The portion of a premium, net of any amount ceded, that represents coverage already provided or that belongs to the insurer based on the part of the policy period that has passed.
13. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock:
Net income (loss) for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments modify earnings available to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. Earnings per share of Common Stock based on adjusted operating income (loss) of the Financial Services Businesses reflects these adjustments as well.
14. Full Service:
The Full Service line of business provides retirement plan products and services to public, private and not-for-profit organizations. This business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, participant education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investment funds. This business mainly services defined contribution and defined benefit plans; non-qualified plans are also serviced. For clients with both defined contribution and defined benefit plans, integrated recordkeeping services are available. For participants leaving these plans, a range of rollover products are provided through a broker-dealer bank.
15. Full Service Stable Value:
Our Full Service Stable Value products represent fixed rate options on investment funds offered to customers. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time. Upon termination these products repay account balances at market value immediately or may be liquidated at book value over time. Substantially all of these products are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual resets giving effect to previous investment experience. These products are issued through the general account, separate accounts or client-owned trusts. Profits from partially participating general account products result from the spread between the rate of return on investment assets and the interest rates credited to the customer, less expenses. For fully participating products, generally subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee, we earn fee income.
16. General Account:
Invested assets and policyholder liabilities and reserves for which the Company bears the investment risk. Excludes assets recognized for statutory purposes that are specifically allocated to a separate account. General account assets also include assets of the parent company, Prudential Financial, Inc.
17. Gibraltar Life Advisors:
Insurance representatives for Gibraltar Life.
18. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Administrative Operating Expense Ratios:
Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income.
19. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Benefits Ratios:
Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income.
20. Individual Annuity Account Values in General Account and Separate Account:
Amounts represent the breakdown of invested customer funds in annuities either written or reinsured by the Company.
21. Individual Annuities - Net Amounts at Risk:
Living Benefit Features - For guarantees of benefits that are payable at annuitization, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the present value of the minimum guaranteed annuity payments available to the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in excess of the current account balance. For guarantees of benefits that are payable at withdrawal, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the present value of the minimum guaranteed withdrawal payments available to the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in excess of the current account balance. For guarantees of accumulation balances, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the guaranteed minimum accumulation balance minus the current account balance.
Death Benefit Features - Net amount at risk is generally defined as the current guaranteed minimum death benefit in excess of the current account balance at the balance sheet date.
 
 
2009 KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
22. Insurance and Annuity Benefits:
Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, and losses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.
23. International Life Planners:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations outside the United States, excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors. Excludes Life Planners associated with discontinued Philippine operations.
24. Non-recourse and Limited-recourse Debt:
Limited and non-recourse borrowing is where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets.
25. Operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income):
Adjusted operating income after-tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits.
An alternative measure to operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income) is return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations). Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) represents income from continuing operations after-tax attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. as determined in accordance with GAAP (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average total attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses. Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) is 12.39% for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, 3.48% for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, 21.11% for the three months ended September 30, 2009, 12.79% for the three months ended June 30, 2009, .14% for the three months ended March 31, 2009, -39.94% for the three months ended December 31, 2008, -2.30% for the three months ended September 30, 2008.
26. Policy Persistency - Group Insurance:
Percentage of the premiums in force at the end of the prior year that are still in force at the end of the period (excluding Service members' Group Life Insurance and Prudential Employee Benefit Plan).
27. Policy Persistency - International Insurance:
13 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their second policy year. 25 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their third policy year.
28. Prudential Agents:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations in the United States.
29. Prudential Agent productivity:
Commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents under contract for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. Excludes commissions on new sales by Prudential Agents hired or departed during the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
30. Ratio of capital debt to total capitalization:
For the purposes of this ratio, we measure "debt" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs and 25% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and we measure "total capitalization" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs, 100% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and attributed equity of the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension / postretirement benefits.
31. Separate Accounts:
Assets of our insurance companies allocated under certain policies and contracts that are segregated from the general account and other separate accounts. The policyholder or contractholder predominantly bears the risk of investments held in a separate account. 32. Wrap-Fee Products: Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the customer are generally invested in other investment products such as mutual funds.
32. Wrap-Fee Products:
Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the cusomter are generally invested in other investment products such as mutual funds.
 
 
RATINGS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
INSURANCE CLAIMS PAYING RATINGS
as of November 4, 2009
 
 
INVESTOR INFORMATION:
 
Common Stock:
Common Stock of Prudential Financial, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PRU.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
September 30, 2009
($ millions)
 
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
 
 
In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $4.542 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses as of September 30, 2009 were $1.178 billion of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities.
 
 
Excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $206 million and fair value of $200 million. Based on amortized cost, 85% of these securities have credit ratings of or above and the remaining 15% have credit ratings of BBB or below. As of September 30, 2009, the asset-backed securities include less than 1% of securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Also included are collateralized debt obligations with amortized cost of $21 million and fair value of $9 million.
Also excluded from the table above are asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $787 million of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contract holders. An additional $1.5 billion of asset-backed securities as of September 30, 2009 are classified as other trading, including $21 million held outside the general account, 97% of which have credit ratings of AAA and 3% of which have credit ratings of B and below and $1.5 billion included in our general account, 93% of which have credit ratings of A or above, and 7% of which have credit ratings of BBB or below.
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of September 30, 2009, based on amortized cost, 10.182 billion of the general account residential mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Financial Services Businesses were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of A or above. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $41 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining $78 million (and less than 1% of total fixed maturities in the Financial Services Businesses), of which 41% have credit ratings of A or above, 16% have BBB credit ratings and the remaining 43% have below investment grade ratings.
Excluded from the above are residential mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $755 million and fair value of $787 million, 99% of which have credit ratings of A or better and the remaining 1% of which have credit ratings of BB and below.
Also excluded from the above are of residential mortgage-backed securities classified as trading, including $1.3 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and carried at fair value, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contract holders, and $136 million of other trading account assets.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Financial Services Businesses
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
September 30, 2009
($ millions)
 
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
 
 
Excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account in other entities and operations with amortized cost of $81 million and fair value of $84 million, 91% of which have credit ratings of A or better and the remaining 9% have credit ratings of BB and below. Also excluded from the table above are commercial mortgage-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value, including $2.1 billion of trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities, the investment results of which ultimately accrue to contract holders, and $128 million of other trading account assets.
Less than $1 million of commercial mortgage-backed securities held outside the general account as of September 30, 2009 are classified as other trading, all of which have AAA credit ratings.
(d) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage and other loans:
 
 
As of September 30, 2009, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of general account investments in commercial mortgages attributable to the Financial Services Businesses was 65% and 1.80 times, respectively.
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
September 30, 2009
($ millions)
 
 
(a) Supplemental information for asset-backed securities:
 
 
 
In addition to subordination, certain securities, referred to as front pay or second pay securities, benefit from the prioritization of principal cash flows within the senior tranches of the structure. In most instances, these shorter duration senior securities have priority to principal cash flows over other securities in the structure, including longer duration senior securities. Included within the $3.671 billion of asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business as of September 30, 2009 were $1.174 million of securities, on an amortized cost basis, that represent front pay or second pay securities, depending on the overall structure of the securities.
 
 
Excluded from the table above are $27 million of asset-backed securities classified as trading and carried at fair value.
(b) Supplemental information for residential mortgage-backed securities:
As of September 30, 2009, based on amortized cost, $ 2.549 billion of the residential mortgage-backed securities attributable to the Closed Block Business were publicly traded agency pass-through securities, which are supported by implicit or explicit government guarantees and have credit ratings of A or above. Collateralized mortgage obligations, including approximately $129 million secured by "ALT-A" mortgages, represented the remaining $318 million of residential mortgage-backed securities (and 1% of total fixed maturities in the Closed Block Business), of which 58% have A credit ratings or above, and 42% have below investment grade ratings.
(c) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage-backed securities:
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc.
Closed Block Business
Information Regarding Certain General Account Investments
Residential Mortgage-Backed, Commercial Mortgage-Backed, and Asset-Backed Securities, and Commercial Mortgage and Other Loans
September 30, 2009
($ millions)
 
(d) Supplemental information for commercial mortgage and other loans:
 
As of September 30, 2009, based on amortized cost, the weighted average loan to value and debt service coverage ratios of general account investments in commercial mortgages attributable to the Closed Block Business was 58% and 1.92 times, respectively.


