FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20090210171103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (the "Company") is filing as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K the form of Terms and Conditions of the 2009 Long-Term Incentive Program relating to stock option grants and restricted stock unit awards to its chairman and principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other executive officers in 2009 under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan.
 
On February 10, 2009, the Board of Directors of the Company amended Article III, Section 1, of the Company's By-Laws in order to implement a majority voting standard with respect to the election of Directors. Attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 are the Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company, reflecting this amendment.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 10, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
Section 1. . The registered office of the Corporation shall be in the City of Newark, County of Essex, State of New Jersey.
Registered Office
Section 2. . The Corporation may also have offices at other places, both within and without the State of New Jersey.
Other Offices
Section 1. . Meetings of the shareholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of New Jersey, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof.
Place of Meetings
Section 2. . The annual meetings of shareholders shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, at which meetings the shareholders shall elect directors and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting. Written notice of the annual meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which such meeting is called, shall be given to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting.
Annual Meetings
Section 3. . Unless otherwise prescribed by law or by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as amended or restated from time to time (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), special meetings of shareholders, for any purpose or purposes, may be called by either (i) the Chairman of the Board of
Special Meetings
 
Directors, (ii) the Chief Executive Officer, (iii) the President, (iv) the Board of Directors, or (v) holders of not less than 25% of the shares entitled to vote at a meeting. Written notice of a special meeting shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. At a special meeting of the shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall be specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto).
Section 4. . The Certificate of Incorporation shall establish the percentage of shares entitled to vote, that shall constitute a quorum at meetings of the shareholders for the transaction of business. A quorum, once established, shall not be broken by the withdrawal of enough votes to leave less than a quorum. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the shareholders, the shareholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. When a meeting is adjourned to another time and place, notice of such time and place shall not be required if such time and place are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken and at the adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present or represented such business is transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed. If the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if
Quorum
 
after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting.
For purposes of the foregoing, where a separate vote by class or classes is required for any matter, the holders of the number of shares specified by the Certificate of Incorporation as constituting a quorum shall constitute a quorum to take action with respect to that vote on that matter. Two or more classes or series of stock shall be considered a single class if the holders thereof are entitled to vote together as a single class at the meeting.
Section 5. . Any shareholder entitled to vote may do so in person or by his or her proxy appointed by an instrument in writing subscribed by such shareholder or by his or her attorney thereunto authorized, delivered to the Secretary of the meeting; , , that no proxy shall be voted or acted upon after eleven months from its date, unless said proxy expressly provides for a longer period. Without limiting the manner in which a shareholder may authorize another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy, either of the following shall constitute a valid means by which a shareholder may grant such authority:
Proxies
provided
however
(i) A shareholder may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy. Execution may be accomplished by the shareholder or his or her authorized officer, director, employee or agent
 
signing such writing or causing his or her signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means, including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature.
(ii) A shareholder may authorize another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cable, telephonic transmission or, to the extent permitted by law, other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission.
Section 6. . At all meetings of the shareholders at which a quorum is present, except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any question brought before the meeting shall be decided by the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast at the meeting by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the Chairman of the meeting, in his or her discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot.
Voting
Section 7. . No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of shareholders, other than business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given
Nature of Business at Annual Meeting of Shareholders
 
by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (c) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any shareholder of the Corporation (i) who is a shareholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 7 and on the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 7.
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, such shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than one hundred twenty (120) days nor more than one hundred and fifty (150) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs.
provided
however
 
To be in proper written form, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter such shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of such shareholder, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such shareholder, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such shareholder and any material interest of such shareholder in such business and (v) a representation that such shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting.
No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of shareholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 7, , , that, once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 7 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any shareholder of any such business. If the Chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
provided
however
 
The order of business at each annual or special meeting of shareholders shall be as determined by the Chairman of the meeting. The Chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, the establishment of procedures for the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls.
Section 8. . The officer or agent of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at the shareholders' meeting or any adjournment thereof, arranged in alphabetical order by class, series or group of shareholders maintained by the Corporation, and showing the address of each shareholder entitled to vote at the shareholders' meeting and the number of shares registered in the name of each such shareholder. The list shall be produced (or available by means of visual display) and kept at the time and place of the meeting for inspection of any shareholder of the Corporation present at the meeting for a reasonable period during the meeting.
List of Shareholders Entitled to Vote
 
Section 9. . The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the shareholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 8 of this Article II or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of shareholders.
Stock Ledger
Section 10. . In order that the Corporation may determine the shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors and which record date: (1) in the case of determination of shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders or adjournment thereof, shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting; and (2) in the case of any other action, shall not be more than sixty days prior to such other action. If no record date is fixed: (1) the record date for determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (2) the record date for determining shareholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors
Record Date
 
adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of shareholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; , , that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
provided
however
Section 11. . In advance of any meeting of shareholders, the Board by resolution or the Chairman of the Board of Directors or Chief Executive Officer shall appoint one or more inspectors of election to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One or more other persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is present, ready and willing to act at a meeting of shareholders, the Chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Unless otherwise required by law, inspectors may be officers, employees or agents of the Corporation, although no person standing for election as a director at a meeting may serve as an inspector for such meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspector shall have the duties prescribed by law and shall take charge of the polls and, when the vote is completed, shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken and of such other facts as may be required by law.
Inspectors of Election
 
Section 1. .
Number and Election of Directors
(a) The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than ten nor more than twenty-four members, the exact number of which shall be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. Except as provided in Section 3 of this Article III, each director shall be elected by a the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to the director at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if as of a date that is fourteen (14) days in advance of the date the Corporation files its definitive proxy statement (regardless of whether or not thereafter revised or supplemented) with the Securities and Exchange Commission the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. For purposes of this section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of votes cast "against" and/or "withheld" with respect to that director. The Corporate Governance and Business Ethics Committee has established procedures under which any director who is not elected shall offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board. The Corporate Governance and Business Ethics Committee will make a recommendation to the Board as to whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether other action
 
should be taken. The Board will act on the Committee's recommendation and publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. Each director so elected shall hold office for the term set forth in subsection (b) hereof and until such director's successor is duly elected and qualified, or until such director's death, or until such director's earlier resignation or removal. The directors may appoint a Chairman of the Board, who may, in the Board's discretion, also be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
(b) Commencing at the annual meeting of shareholders that is held in calendar year 2005 (the "2005 Annual Meeting"), directors shall be elected annually for terms of one year, except that any director in office at the 2005 Annual Meeting whose term expires at the annual meeting of shareholders held in calendar year 2006 or calendar year 2007 (a "Continuing Classified Director") shall continue to hold office until the end of the term for which such director was elected and until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. Accordingly, at the 2005 Annual Meeting, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders that is held in calendar year 2006 and until such directors' successors shall have been elected and qualified.At the annual meeting of shareholders that is held in calendar year 2006, the successors of the directors whose terms expire at that meeting shall be elected for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders that is held in calendar year 2007 and until such directors' successors shall have been elected and qualified. At
 
each annual meeting of shareholders thereafter, all directors shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of shareholders and until such directors' successors shall have been elected and qualified.
Section 2. . Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation, except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation with respect to the right of holders of preferred stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of directors in certain circumstances. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of shareholders, or at any special meeting of shareholders called for the purpose of electing directors. Nominations may be made either (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (b) by any shareholder of the Corporation (i) who is a shareholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 2 and on the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.
Nomination of Directors
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a shareholder, such shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (a) in the
 
case of an annual meeting, not less than one hundred and twenty (120) days nor more than one hundred and fifty (150) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the shareholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs; and (b) in the case of a special meeting of shareholders called for the purpose of electing directors, not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which notice of the date of the special meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the special meeting was made, whichever first occurs. To be in proper written form, a shareholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (a) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by the person and (iv) any other information relating to the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (together with any successor laws, rules and
provided
however
 
regulations, the "Exchange Act"); and (b) as to the shareholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of such shareholder, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such shareholder, (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such shareholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such shareholder, (iv) a representation that such shareholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice and (v) any other information relating to such shareholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee agreeing to be named as a nominee and to serve as a director, if elected.
No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2. If the Chairman of the meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
Section 3. . Subject to the terms of any one or more classes or series of Preferred Stock, any vacancy on the Board of Directors that results from an
Vacancies
 
increase in the number of directors or any other vacancy occurring on the Board of Directors, however resulting, may be filled solely by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining Board of Directors, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, or by a sole remaining director, unless otherwise required by law. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting of shareholders and until his or her successor shall have been elected and qualified, including in the circumstances where such director's predecessor was elected to a longer term. Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more class or classes or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately as a class, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of shareholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 4. . The business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things, except as otherwise provided in the BCA or by the Certificate of Incorporation.
Duties and Powers
Section 5. . At each meeting of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or, in his or her absence, a director chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall act as Chairman. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary at each meeting of the Board of Directors. In case
Organization
 
the Secretary shall be absent from any meeting of the Board of Directors, an Assistant Secretary shall perform the duties of Secretary at such meeting; and in the absence from any such meeting of the Secretary and all the Assistant Secretaries, the Chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as Secretary of the meeting.
Section 6. . Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time, by giving written notice to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect at the time therein specified or, if no time is specified, immediately; and, unless otherwise specified in such notice, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Except as otherwise required by law and subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of shares of Preferred Stock then outstanding, any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of the majority of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote for the election of directors; provided, however, that until the term of a Continuing Classified Director expires (or the earlier resignation of such Continuing Classified Director), such Continuing Classified Director may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause, by the vote of 80% of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote for the election of directors so long as the number of affirmative votes cast at such meeting of shareholders is at least 50% of the total number of issued and outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon.
Resignations and Removals of Directors
 
Section 7. . The Board of Directors of the Corporation may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of New Jersey. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors and, unless required by resolution of the Board of Directors, without notice. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice Chairman, if there be one, or a majority of the directors then in office. Notice thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either by mail not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the date of the meeting, by telephone, facsimile or telegram on twenty-four (24) hours' notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances.
Meetings
Section 8. . Except as may be otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, the lesser of eleven directors or a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting of the time and place of the adjourned meeting (provided the period of adjournment does not exceed ten days in any one adjournment), until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum
 
Section 9. . Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if, prior to or subsequent to the action, all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the written consents are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Actions of Board
Section 10. . Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 10 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone
Section 11. . The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation;
Committees
 
provided, however that in any event the Board shall designate Audit, Compensation and Corporate Governance Committees that shall be composed entirely of directors who are not officers or employees of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, and such Committees shall be constituted to comply in all respects with the organizational requirements of applicable laws, rules, regulations and stock exchange listing requirements. The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of any such committee with all powers of such absent or disqualified member. Any committee, to the extent permitted by law and provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation. Each committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required.
Section 12. . The Board of Directors, by affirmative vote of the majority of directors in office, shall have the authority to cause the payment of the directors' expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and its committees and to cause the payment of such other reasonable fees and amounts as shall be determined by the Board of Directors in the manner set forth in this Section 12. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor; provided,
Compensation
 
however, that no director of the Corporation who receives a salary as an officer or employee of the Corporation shall receive any per diem compensation for attending meetings of the Board of Directors or any of its committees.
Section 13. . No contract or other transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or otherwise have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for such reasons, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or other transaction, or solely because such person's vote is counted for such purpose if any of the following is true: (i) the contract or other transaction is fair and reasonable as to the Corporation at the time it is authorized, approved or ratified; (ii) the fact of the common directorship or interest is disclosed or known to the Board of Directors or committee and the Board of Directors or committee authorizes, approves or ratifies the contract or other transaction by unanimous written consent, provided at least one director so consenting is disinterested, or by affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (iii) the fact of the common directorship or interest is disclosed or known to the shareholders, and they authorize, approve or ratify the contract or transaction. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or other transaction.
Interested Directors
 
Section 14. . The Board of Directors shall comprise itself and its committees to comply in all respects with the organizational requirements of N.J.S.A. 17:27A-4(d), unless some or all elements of compliance are in fact properly undertaken by an insurance affiliate of the corporation and the Board of Directors determines to rely on such compliance.
Insurance Holding Company Systems
Section 1. . The officers of the Corporation shall be a Chief Executive Officer, President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and a Controller. Officers at the level of Senior Vice President and above shall be elected by the Board of Directors, and may in the discretion of the Board of Directors be given the designation of "Executive" or "Senior" Vice President, Vice Chairman, General Counsel, Chief Investment Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Information Officer or such other title as the Board of Directors deems appropriate. All officers at the level below Senior Vice President, including those who are named for signatory purposes only, shall be appointed by a proper officer of the Corporation and, in the
General
 
case of an appointed Vice President, may be designated by such officer as "Corporate," "Departmental," "Second" or such other designation as may be deemed appropriate. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws.
Section 2. . Subject to the provisions of Section 1 of this Article IV, the Board of Directors at its first meeting held after each annual meeting of shareholders shall elect the officers of the Corporation at the Senior Vice President level and above, who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, and all officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualified, or until their earlier resignation or removal. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed with or without cause at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors.
Election
Section 3. . Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by the Chief Executive Officer or his or her designee and any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and
Voting Securities Owned by the Corporation
 
at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present.
Section 4. . The Chairman of the Board of Directors, if there be one, shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors. In case of the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board, the Board of Directors shall select a director to preside. In case of a vacancy in the office of the Chairman of the Board, the Board of Directors may designate a replacement presiding officer.
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Section 5. . The Chief Executive Officer shall be selected by the Board of Directors and shall have the power to supervise and direct the business of the Corporation, subject only to the power and authority of the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall have power, subject to the power of the Board of Directors, to appoint or remove all persons employed or to be employed by the Corporation in any capacity whatsoever, except the officers elected by the Board of Directors, and shall have power to fix the compensation of all persons employed or to be employed by the Corporation, other than the compensation of officers whose compensation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors pursuant to applicable law, these By-Laws, or a resolution of the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall, with the approval of the Board of Directors, designate an officer at or above the level of Senior Vice President who, in the absence or disability of the Chief Executive Officer, shall be vested with the powers and required to perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer.
Chief Executive Officer
 
Section 6. . The President and Vice Presidents shall each exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Chief Executive Officer, the officer to whom such officer reports or the Board of Directors.
President and Vice President
Section 7. . The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of shareholders and record all the proceedings thereat in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall also perform like duties for the standing committees when required. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the shareholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the Chief Executive Officer. If the Secretary shall be unable or shall refuse to cause to be given notice of all meetings of the shareholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and if there be no Assistant Secretary, then the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer may choose another officer to cause such notice to be given. The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, if there be one, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of any such Assistant Secretary.
Secretary
 
Section 8. . The Treasurer shall have custody of such funds of the Corporation as shall be placed in his or her keeping, shall open and maintain accounts in banking institutions in the name of the corporation for the deposit of such funds and may open and maintain accounts in the names or titles of representatives of the Corporation under such conditions as he or she may deem appropriate, subject to supervision by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof. All funds shall be disbursed only by instruments signed by two or more officials to be designated by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof or pursuant to procedures approved by the Treasurer and the Controller. The Treasurer shall have custody of such of the securities of the Corporation as shall be placed in his or her keeping and shall open and maintain accounts in banking institutions in the name of the Corporation for the custody of such securities, including accounts maintained for the purpose of participating in one or more securities systems designed to permit the transfer of a security without physical delivery of the certificate or other evidence of such security, subject to supervision by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof. The Treasurer shall have the power to sell, assign or transfer securities of the Corporation on the authorization or direction of the Board of Directors or a committee thereof or to take such other action in connection therewith as may be authorized or directed by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof, and shall
Treasurer
 
have power to execute, on behalf of the Corporation, all instruments necessary or appropriate in the premises. The Treasurer shall have the power to borrow funds on behalf of the Corporation on the authorization of the Board of Directors or a committee thereof and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer or the officer to whom the Treasurer reports. Each Assistant Treasurer shall have power to perform, on behalf of the Corporation, such duties as are or may be required to be performed by the Treasurer, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her from time to time by the Chief Executive Officer or the Treasurer.
If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office of Treasurer and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of the Treasurer's death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in the Treasurer's possession or under control of the Treasurer belonging to the Corporation.
Section 9. . The Controller shall supervise the accounts of the Corporation, shall have supervision over and responsibility for the books, records, accounting and systems of accounting and auditing in each business unit of the Corporation, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer, or the officer to whom the Controller reports.
Controller
 
Section 1. . Each share of the Corporation's stock shall be represented either by book entries on the Corporation's books, or by certificates signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or a Vice President and, at the Corporation's option, countersigned by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary.
Certificates: Uncertificated Shares
In the case of uncertificated shares, within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer thereof, the Chief Executive Officer or his or her designee shall send to the registered owner of such shares a written notice containing (i) (A) a full statement of the designations, relative rights, preferences and limitations of the shares of the class and series issued or transferred, so far as the same have been determined, and the authority of the Board of Directors to divide the shares into classes or series and to determine and change the relative rights, preferences and limitations of any class or series; or (B) a declaration that the Corporation will furnish to the shareholder, upon request and without charge, a statement containing the information described in the preceding clause (A); (ii) a statement that the corporation is organized under the laws
 
of the State of New Jersey; (iii) the name of the person to whom the uncertificated shares have been issued or transferred; (iv) the number and class of shares, and the designation of the series, if any, to which such notice applies; and (v) any restrictions on transfer of the shares in accordance with Section 14A:7-12(2) of the BCA. The notice referred to in the preceding sentence shall also contain the following statement: "This notice is merely a record of the rights of the addressee as of the time of its issuance. Delivery of this statement, of itself, confers no rights on the recipient. This notice is neither a negotiable instrument nor a security."
Section 2. . Any or all of the signatures on a certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Signatures
Section 3. . The Corporation, acting through the Chief Executive Officer or his designee, may issue or direct the issuance of a new certificate of stock or uncertificated share or shares in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen, mutilated or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen, mutilated or destroyed.
Lost, Stolen, Mutilated or Destroyed Certificates
 
When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or uncertificated shares, the responsible officer may, in his discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen, mutilated or destroyed certificate, or such person's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen, mutilated or destroyed. The Board of Directors may adopt such other provisions and restrictions with reference to lost, stolen, mutilated or destroyed certificates, not inconsistent with applicable law, as it shall in its discretion deem appropriate.
Section 4. . Stock of the Corporation for which certificates have been issued shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by law and in these By-Laws. Transfers of certificated stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation only by the person named in the certificate or by such person's representative as determined in accordance with generally accepted securities industry practices, and upon the surrender of the certificate therefor, properly endorsed for transfer, and payment of all necessary transfer taxes; , , that such surrender and endorsement or payment of taxes shall not be required in any case in which the officers of the Corporation shall determine to waive such requirement. Every certificate exchanged, returned or surrendered to the Corporation shall be marked "Cancelled," with the date of cancellation, by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Corporation or the transfer agent thereof. No transfer of stock shall
Transfers of Certificates
provided
however
 
be valid as against the Corporation for any purpose until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred.
Section 5. . Except as otherwise required by law or the requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or Depository Trust Company, uncertificated shares of the Corporation's stock shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by law and in these By-Laws. Transfers of uncertificated shares shall be made on the books of the Corporation only by the person then registered in the stock records of the Corporation as the owner of such shares or by such person's representative as determined in accordance with generally accepted securities industry practices, and only upon payment of all necessary transfer taxes and receipt of a written notice to the Corporation containing the following information: (i) the class of shares, and the designation of the series, if any, to which such notice applies; (ii) the number of shares transferred; and (iii) the name and address of the party to whom the shares have been transferred, and who, as a result of such transfer, is to become the new registered owner of the shares transferred. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such notice or payment of taxes shall not be required in any case in which the officers of the Corporation shall determine to waive such requirement. No transfer of uncertificated shares shall be valid as against the Corporation for any purpose until it shall have been entered in the stock ledger of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred.
Transfers of Uncertificated Shares
 
Section 6. . The Corporation may from time to time maintain one or more transfer offices or agencies and registry offices or agencies as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Transfer and Registry Agents
Section 7. . The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by law or the New York Stock Exchange.
Beneficial Owners
 
Section 1. . Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or shareholder, such notice may be given by mail, addressed to such director, member of a committee or shareholder, at such person's last address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be deposited in the United States mail. Written notice may also be given personally or by telegram, courier service, express mail service or facsimile.
Notices
Section 2. .
Waivers of Notice
(a) Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or shareholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed, by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting, present by person or represented by proxy, without protesting prior to the conclusion of the meeting the lack of notice of such meeting, shall constitute a waiver of notice by him or her.
(b) Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the shareholders, directors or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws.
 
Section 1. . Subject to the requirements of the BCA and the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation may be declared by resolution of the Board of Directors, and may be paid in cash, in property (including the shares or bonds of other corporations), in the Corporation's bonds or in shares of the Corporation's capital stock. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for purchasing any of the shares of capital stock, warrants, rights, options, bonds, debentures, notes, scrip or other securities or evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any other proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve.
Dividends
Section 2. . All checks, drafts or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed on behalf of the Corporation by the Treasurer and Controller or two or more officials to be designated by procedures approved by the Treasurer and Controller or by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Disbursements
 
Section 3. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
Section 4. . The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, and the words "Corporate Seal, New Jersey". The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Corporate Seal
Section 1. . Subject to Section 3 of this Article VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, arbitrative or investigative (including any appeal thereon) (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or Another Enterprise (hereinafter defined), against expenses (including reasonable
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings Other than Those by or in the Right of the Corporation
 
costs, disbursements and attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such person had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful; provided, however, that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter if a judgment or final adjudication adverse to such person establishes that his or her acts or omissions i) were in breach of his or her duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its shareholders as defined in Subsection (3) of Section 14A: 2-7 of the BCA, ii) were not in good faith or involved a knowing violation of law or iii) resulted in receipt by such person of an improper personal benefit. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that such person did not act in good faith and in a manner which such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
nolo contendere
Section 2. . Subject to Section 3 of this Article VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings by or in the Right of the Corporation
 
to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit (whether civil, criminal, administrative, arbitrative or investigative) by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or Another Enterprise, against expenses (including reasonable costs, disbursements and attorneys' fees) judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation; provided, however, that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter if a judgment or final adjudication adverse to such person establishes that his or her acts or omissions i) were in breach of his or her duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its shareholders, as defined in Subsection (3) of Section 14A: 2-7 of the BCA, ii) were not in good faith or involved a knowing violation of law or iii) resulted in receipt by such person of an improper personal benefit. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Superior Court of the State of New Jersey or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Superior Court or such other court shall deem proper.
 
Section 3. . Any indemnification under Section 1 of this Article VIII and, unless ordered by a court, under Section 2 of this Article VIII, shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director or officer is proper in the circumstances, because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article VIII, as the case may be. With respect to directors or officers of the level of Senior Vice President or above, such determination shall be made (i) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (ii) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (iii) by the shareholders. With respect to officers below the level of Senior Vice President, such determination may be made by the General Counsel of the Corporation, or his or her designees. To the extent, however, that a director or officer of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding described in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VIII, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such person shall be indemnified against expenses (including reasonable costs, disbursements and attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith, without the necessity of authorization in the specific case.
Authorization of Indemnification
 
Section 4. . For purposes of any determination under Section 3 of this Article VIII, a person shall be deemed to have acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to have had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful, if and to the extent such person's action is based upon
Good Faith Defined
 
 
 
 
provided such person had a reasonable good faith belief in the accuracy of the above described statements, books, records, information, advice, or reports. The provisions of this Section 4 shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the circumstances in which a person may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or 2 of this Article VIII, as the case may be.
 
Section 5. . The reasonable expenses incurred by a director or officer in defending or investigating a threatened or pending action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking (reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation) by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article VIII; provided, however, that with respect to officers of the Corporation, the Board of Directors or General Counsel may in any instance require as a condition to such advancements that the proposed indemnitee cooperate with an investigation to be conducted at the Corporation's expense, by an independent nationally recognized law firm selected by the Corporation, and that such law firm render an opinion that, based on its investigation, the firm has concluded that it is more likely than not that the proposed indemnitee will meet the standard for indemnification in connection with the matter for which advancements are sought as set forth in Section 1 or 2 of this Article VIII, as the case may be.
Expenses Payable in Advance
Section 6. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted pursuant to
Nonexclusivity of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
 
this Article VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under the Certificate of Incorporation or any By-Law, agreement, contract, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or pursuant to the direction (howsoever embodied) of any court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise, both as to action in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office. The provisions of this Article VIII shall not be deemed to preclude the indemnification of any person who is not specified in Section 1 or 2 of this Article VIII but whom the Corporation has the obligation to indemnify under the provisions of the BCA or otherwise.
Section 7. . The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of Another Enterprise against any expenses incurred in any proceeding and liabilities asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power or the obligation to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Article VIII.
Insurance
Section 8. . For purposes of this Article VIII, references to "the Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any
Certain Definitions
 
constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors or officers so that any person who is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation, or is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or Another Enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Article VIII with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as such person would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued. For purposes of this Article VIII, the term "Another Enterprise" shall mean any other corporation or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which such person is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent. For purposes of this Article VIII, references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this Article VIII.
 
Section 9. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article VIII shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, or employee and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person. The rights provided to any present or former director or officer by this Article VIII shall be enforceable against the Corporation by such person (and/or his or her legal representative), who shall be presumed to have relied upon it in serving or continuing to serve as a director or officer. No elimination of or amendment to this Article VIII shall deprive any present or former director or officer of rights hereunder arising out of alleged or actual occurrences, acts or failures to act, or any other state of facts existing, prior to such amendment.
Survival of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
Section 10. . Notwithstanding any thing contained in this Article VIII to the contrary, the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any director or officer (or his or her heirs, executors or personal or legal representatives) or advance expenses in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Limitation on Indemnification
 
Section 11. . The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, provide rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to employees and agents of the Corporation similar to those conferred in this Article VIII to directors or officers of the Corporation.
Indemnification of Agents and Employees
Section 1. . The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have the power to make, alter, amend and repeal these By-Laws (except in so far as the By-Laws adopted by the shareholders shall otherwise provide). Any By-Laws made by the directors under the powers conferred hereby may be altered, amended or repealed by the directors or the shareholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing and anything in the Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, Sections 3, 4 and 7 of
Amendments
 
Article II, Sections 1(a), 2 and 3 of Article III, Article VIII and Article IX of these By-Laws shall not be altered, amended or repealed by the shareholders and no provision inconsistent therewith shall be adopted without either i) the approval of the Board of Directors, or ii) the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the votes cast at a meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon; , , that the number of votes cast at such meeting of shareholders is at least 50% of the total number of issued and outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon.
provided
however
Section 2. . As used in this Article IX and in these By-Laws generally, the term "entire Board of Directors" means the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Entire Board of Directors
 

Exhibit 10.1
IMPORTANT NOTICE
This document is intended to help you understand the main features of the 2009 Long-Term Incentive Program (the ) under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the ). You should refer to this document for grants made in 2009, because terms may change from year to year.
Program
Plan
only
This document is not a substitute for the official Plan documents, which govern the operation of the Plan. All terms and conditions of the Program and the Plan, including your eligibility and any benefits, will be determined pursuant to, and are governed by, the provisions of the Plan documents. If there is any discrepancy between the information in this document or in any other materials relating to the Plan and the actual Plan documents, or if there is a conflict between information discussed by anyone acting on behalf of Prudential and the actual Plan documents, the Plan documents, as interpreted by the Compensation Committee as the Plan administrator in its sole discretion, will always govern.
Prudential may, in its sole discretion, modify, amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan or any and all of the policies, programs and plans described in this document in whole or in part, at any time, without notice to or consent of any Participant to the extent permissible under applicable law.
Nothing contained in this document, or in any other materials related to the Program or the Plan, is intended to constitute or create a contract of employment nor shall it constitute or create the right to remain associated with or in the employ of Prudential for any particular period of time. For US Participants only employment with Prudential is employment-at-will; this means that either you or Prudential may terminate the employment relationship or association at any time, with or without cause or notice.
 
This document contains the principal terms and conditions applicable to Awards granted to employees under the Prudential Financial Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the ) for 2009. Specific provisions applicable to any employees selected to participate in any particular country or in the European Union are set out in Schedule 2.
Plan
PART A: General terms and conditions
 
Prudential's 2009 Long-Term Incentive Program (the ) is made available to employees subject to the terms of the Plan and is designed to strengthen the links between leadership, motivation and consistent performance. Employees selected to participate in the Program may be granted Awards of Restricted Stock Units or Options, or a combination of both, and will be advised of the Awards made to them in their own personalized compensation statement or a communication from their manager.
Program
The grant of Awards is subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Plan document. This document describes the principal terms and conditions of Awards granted to employees under the Plan (the ). The Schedule to these Terms contains the definitions used in these Terms. If there is any discrepancy between these Terms and the Plan document, or if there is a discrepancy between any information given by anyone acting on behalf of any member of the Company Group and the Plan document, the Plan document, as interpreted by the Compensation Committee, will always govern.
Terms
 
Grants of Awards under the Plan are entirely at the discretion of Prudential.
A grant of an Award under the Plan on one occasion does not give an employee the right to any further grant at any time in the future.
 
An employee granted an Award may accept the Award in any manner specified by the Compensation Committee (or the Company Group) and may be deemed to have accepted an Award if the employee has not declined the grant of that Award (in whole or in part) within any period of time specified by the Compensation Committee (or the Company Group) and notified to the employee.
By accepting an Award, a Participant will be responsible for complying with any Applicable Laws relating to:
 
 
 
The Applicable Laws may change and Participants should seek their own professional legal, financial and taxation advice in relation to their participation in the Plan.
 
Prudential or any member of the Company Group, as appropriate, has the right to deduct, report and account for any taxes or other obligations required to be withheld by law in connection with an Award. Prudential
 
(or, as appropriate, any other member of the Company Group) may require a Participant to pay to Prudential (or, if appropriate, any other member of the Company Group) the amount necessary to satisfy any such taxes or other obligations and may defer delivery of shares of Common Stock under the Plan to a Participant until such withholding is satisfied. On the exercise of an Option or the Vesting of Restricted Stock Units, Prudential or, if appropriate, any other member of the Company Group, will have the right to withhold, either through payroll, through the withholding of sufficient shares of Common Stock or otherwise, in order to satisfy any applicable withholding requirements on the exercise of an Option or the Vesting of Restricted Stock Units. Participants will be responsible for ensuring that their own tax affairs in connection with the Plan are in order.
 
Prudential makes no representation as to the future value of any Award under the Plan or whether any profit will be realized with respect to any Award. Past performance may not be a reliable guide to future performance. Investments may fall as well as rise in value. By accepting the grant of an Award, a Participant agrees that Prudential and the other members of the Company Group are not responsible for foreign exchange fluctuations between the Participant's local currency and the U.S. dollar and are not liable for any decrease in the value of shares of Common Stock. Changes in exchange rates may have an adverse affect on the value, price or income of the securities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Awards granted under the Plan and Prudential's obligation to deliver shares of Common Stock under these Terms will be subject in all respects to (a) all Applicable Laws, and (b) any registration, qualification, approvals or other requirements imposed by any government or regulatory agency or body which the Compensation Committee determines to be necessary or applicable. Shares of Common Stock may not be delivered to a Participant if their receipt would be contrary to any Applicable Laws or the rules of any applicable stock exchange.
 
If at the time of delivery of any shares of Common Stock under the Plan, the Common Stock is not registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), or there is no current prospectus in effect under the Securities Act with respect to the Common Stock, a Participant will, if requested by the Compensation Committee, execute, before the delivery of any shares of Common Stock, an agreement (in the form the Compensation Committee specifies) in which the Participant represents and warrants that the Participant is acquiring the shares for the Participant's own account, for investment only and not with a view to the resale or distribution of the shares, and agrees that any subsequent offer for sale or distribution of any kind of such shares will be made only pursuant to either (a) a registration statement on an appropriate form under the Securities Act, which registration statement has become effective and is current with regard to the shares being offered or sold; or (b) a specific exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, but in claiming that exemption, the Participant will, before any offer for sale of the shares, obtain a prior favorable written opinion, in form and substance satisfactory to the Compensation Committee, from counsel for or approved by the Compensation Committee, as to the applicability of the exemption.
Securities Act
 
A Participant acknowledges that Prudential is organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey and maintains its headquarters in Newark, New Jersey. The Participant further acknowledges that Prudential has an interest in ensuring the uniform interpretation and application of these Terms to all Participants. Accordingly, Prudential and the Participant agree that the Plan and these Terms will be governed by the laws of the State of New Jersey, without giving affect to its conflict of law provisions.
 
By accepting an Award under the Plan, a Participant agrees, to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Laws, in lieu of receiving documents in paper format to accept electronic delivery of any documents that any member of the Company Group may be required to deliver in connection with the Plan. Electronic delivery of a document may be via e-mail or by reference to a location on a member of the Company Group's intranet site or a designated third-party vendor's internet site.
 
A Participant does not have any rights as a shareholder in Prudential by virtue of the grant of an Award under the Plan, but only with respect to shares of Common Stock, if any, delivered to the Participant in accordance with the Plan and these Terms.
 
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no acceleration of the time or schedule of any delivery of shares or other payment related to an Award will be permitted to the extent necessary to comply with Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued under Section 409A. The Compensation Committee may amend, modify, adjust or supplement any provision of the Plan without a Participant's consent if the Compensation Committee determines that the amendment, modification, adjustment or supplementation is required or advisable for an Award or Prudential to comply with, or not violate, any Applicable Laws, regulation or rule, including, without limitation, Code Section 409A.
 
Participation in the Plan does not entitle an employee of the Company Group to any benefit other than that granted under the Plan. Any benefits granted under the Plan will not be deemed to be compensation under any pension plan or other retirement plan, welfare plan or any compensation plan or program maintained by any member of the Company Group, and will not be considered as part of compensation for the purposes of calculating pension, profit-sharing, bonuses, service awards, or in the event of severance, redundancy or resignation.
Prudential may modify, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any and all of the policies, programs and terms of the Plan in whole or in part, at any time, without notice to or with the consent of Participants.
If shares of Common Stock are, or are to be, delivered in a manner not specifically authorized by the Plan, (i.e., in "Error"), Prudential will be entitled to correct the Error, including reversing the transaction and recouping any Common Stock or gain that might be delivered as a result of the Error.
The English language version of any documents provided in connection with the Plan will prevail in the case of any ambiguities or divergences as a result of the translation of the document into any other language.
Participation in the Plan is not intended to constitute or create a contract of employment nor does it constitute or create the right to remain associated with or in the employ of any member of the Company Group for any particular period of time. Participation in the Plan does not affect in any way a member of the Company Group's right to terminate an employee's Employment at any time, with or without cause, and does not form part of an employee's employment contract, if any.
 
 
The restricted period (the ) with respect to the Restricted Stock Units will begin on the Grant Date and will end on the Payment Date.
Restricted Period
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, a Participant in active Employment on the Payment Date, will receive on the Payment Date or as soon as administratively practicable after the Payment Date, the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the granted number of Restricted Stock Units, less any taxes or other deductions required by Applicable Law.
 
A Participant's outstanding Restricted Stock Units will automatically be forfeited and cancelled on the termination of the Participant's Employment and no shares of Common Stock may thereafter be issued with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, except in the specific circumstances set out in the table below:
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, to the extent necessary to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued under Section 409A with respect to any individual who is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A and the final regulations, on termination of the Participant's employment with any member of the Company Group, delivery of shares of Common Stock may not be made before the date that is six (6) months after the date of such termination of Employment (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death).
 
A Participant granted Restricted Stock Units will be eligible to receive Dividend Equivalents on the Restricted Stock Units based on any regular cash dividends declared on Common Stock from the Grant Date until the Payment Date (or until the date of forfeiture, if sooner). Any Dividend Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as administratively practicable after the related cash dividends are paid to Common Stock holders, unless determined otherwise by the Compensation Committee. Any Dividend Equivalents payable under the Plan will be treated as separate payments from the underlying Restricted Stock Units for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.
 
 
An Option will normally vest and become exercisable in three equal annual installments on each anniversary of the Grant Date provided the Participant holding that Option remains in Employment throughout that period.
 
An Option may be exercised by the Participant:
 
 
 
One or more of the exercise methods may not be available (or may be unavailable during a specified period) if Prudential determines that its availability will or could violate the terms of any Applicable Laws. An Option cannot be exercised when the Market Value of a share of Common Stock does not exceed the Grant Price. Please refer to Schedule 2 for country specific restrictions regarding the exercise of Options.
 
Once an Option vests, it may be exercised until its Expiration Date unless the Participant's employment ends before the Expiration Date or a Change of Control occurs.
 
A Participant's Options, whether vested or unvested, will automatically be forfeited and cancelled on the termination of the Participant's Employment, and no shares of Common Stock may thereafter be purchased under the Options, except in the specified circumstances set out in the table below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of the Terms, the following words and expressions have the meanings ascribed to them.
applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to any Awards made under the Plan or otherwise relating to the Plan;
Applicable Laws 
 termination of a Participant's Employment:
Approved Retirement
 
 
Approved Retirement does not apply to any Participant who has an Agent Emeritus contract with any of Prudential's insurance affiliates or to a Participant whose Employment is terminated for Cause, even if, in either case, the Participant is receiving retirement benefits or is otherwise eligible for retirement or has satisfied the conditions in (ii) above.
 the grant of an Option or a Restricted Stock Unit or a combination of both.
Award
 the board of directors of Prudential.
Board
 includes but is not restricted to any of the following (as determined by the Compensation Committee): (i) dishonesty, fraud or misrepresentation; (ii) inability to obtain or retain appropriate licenses; (iii) violation of any rule or regulation of any regulatory agency or self-regulatory agency; (iv) violation of any policy or rule of Prudential or any subsidiary; (v) commission of a crime; (vi) breach by a Participant of any covenant or agreement with any member of the Company Group not to disclose or misuse any information pertaining to, or misuse any property of, any member of the Company Group, or (vii) any act or omission detrimental to the conduct of the business of any member of the Company Group.
Cause
 occurs, in general, when (i) any person or entity outside of Prudential acquires, directly or indirectly, twenty-five (25) % or more of the combined voting power of Prudential or of the combined assets of Prudential (and its subsidiaries); (ii) the composition of Prudential's Board of Directors changes over a 24-month period such that the Incumbent Directors no longer constitute a majority of the Board of Directors; (iii) a Corporate Event completes and immediately following completion the shareholders of Prudential immediately before the Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the voting power of, in the case of (a) a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation; (b) a share exchange, the acquiring corporation; or (c) a division or a sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than twenty-five per cent. (25%) of the consolidated assets of Prudential immediately before the Corporate Event; or (iv) any other event that the Board declares to be a Change of Control.
Change of Control
No change of control occurs on an underwritten offering of the equity securities of Prudential when no person or entity acquires more than 25% ownership in such securities. The Plan document details how a Change of Control will be determined in various types of acquisitions and corporate reorganization events (including sales of assets), and the document's terms govern any determination that a Change of Control has occurred.
 
 the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 a share of Common Stock in Prudential.
Common Stock
 Prudential and/or its subsidiaries.
Company Group
 the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Prudential, which administers the Plan.
Compensation Committee
 a merger, consolidation, recapitalisation or reorganisation, share exchange, division, sale, plan of complete liquidation or dissolution, or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Prudential which has been approved by the shareholders of Prudential.
Corporate Event
 means, with respect to any Participant, long-term disability as defined under the welfare benefit plan maintained by the member of the Company Group in which the Participant participates and from which the Participant is receiving a long-term disability benefit. In jurisdictions outside the United States where long-term disability is covered by a mandatory or universal program sponsored by the government or an industrial association, receipt of long-term disability benefit from such a program is considered to have met the disability definition of the Plan.
Disability
 an amount paid in lieu of dividends declared on Common Stock during a period that Restricted Stock Units are outstanding.
Dividend Equivalent
 means employment with any member of the Company Group.
Employment
 the date on which an Option is validly exercised.
Exercise Date
 the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date and the last date on which an Option can be exercised, unless the Participant's Employment ends before the Expiration Date or a Change of Control occurs.
Expiration Date
 the date on which an award is granted under the Plan.
Grant Date
 the price set at the Grant Date at which a share of Common Stock can be acquired on exercise of an Option.
Grant Price
 with respect to any period of time specified under the Plan for the purposes of determining a Change of Control, the persons who were members of the Board at the beginning of the period, including any director elected to the Board or nominated for election to the Board by a majority of the Incumbent Directors.
Incumbent Directors
 means, on any date, the price at which shares of Common Stock were last traded on that date on the New York Stock Exchange or, if there are no transactions on that date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which there was a transaction. For the purposes of determining the taxable income from Options and/or Restricted Stock Units, it should be noted that in some countries there are specific rules that set out how Market Value is determined. Where applicable, any particular rules should be noted in the country specific Q&A's.
Market Value
 a conditional right granted under the Plan to purchase one share of Common Stock in the future at a set price within a set time period specified by the Compensation Committee at the Grant Date.
Option
 any employee of a member of the Company Group who holds an outstanding Award granted under the Plan.
Participant
 
 the date on which a Restricted Stock Unit vests, as specified by the Compensation Committee at the Grant Date, which is the third anniversary of the Grant Date.
Payment Date
 the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan, a stock-based compensation plan adopted by the Board of Directors and ratified by the shareholders of Prudential in June 2003.
Plan
 Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, and any successor to Prudential Financial, Inc.
Prudential
 a Separation Agreement and General Release (in connection with an involuntary termination of employment for any reason other than Cause) or a General Release of Claims (in connection with a voluntary termination of employment), whichever is appropriate, in a form and with terms and conditions (including but not limited to, non-solicitation of employees and business of any member of the Company Group) satisfactory to Prudential.
Release
 a conditional right (which is subject to forfeiture and transfer restrictions) granted under the Plan to receive one share of Common Stock at the end of a period of time specified by the Compensation Committee at the Grant Date.
Restricted Stock Unit
 when an Option can be exercised, or a Participant is entitled to receive one share under a Restricted Stock Unit, as appropriate, and "Vested" and "Vesting" will be construed accordingly.
Vest
 
DATA PROTECTION (Applicable to all countries other than the United States)
A Participant agrees by accepting an Award to permit Prudential to process personal data and sensitive personal data about the Participant in connection with the Plan. Such data includes, but is not limited to, the information provided in the Participant's grant documents and any changes thereto, other appropriate personal and financial data, and information about the Participant's participation in the Plan and shares granted under the Plan from time to time (collectively, ). A Participant consents to Prudential processing and transferring any Personal Data outside the country in which the Participant works or is employed to the United States and any other third countries. The legal persons for whom Personal Data is intended include Prudential and any of its subsidiaries, any plan administrator selected by Prudential from time to time, and any other person or entity that Prudential involves in the administration of the Plan. Prudential will take all reasonable measures to keep Personal Data, confidential and accurate. A Participant can access and correct their Personal Data by contacting their human resources representative. A Participant understands and agrees that the transfer of information is important to the administration of the Plan and failure to consent to the transmission of that information may limit their ability to participate in the Plan.
Personal Data
ARGENTINA
 
Funds remitted to or from Argentina in connection with the Plan are subject to Central Bank Regulations. Any violations of those regulations will incur penalties and fines. Each Participant will be responsible for seeking appropriate advice on the Applicable Laws in effect at the time any funds are transferred to or from Argentina.
 
For the purpose of calculating the tax withholding requirements, the taxable income from:
 
 
BRAZIL
The provisions of Term 6 of Part A will not apply to Participants resident in Brazil.
THE EUROPEAN UNION
The provisions in these Terms relating to the impact of the termination of a Participant's Employment due to retirement will not apply to Participants in the European Union due to the Applicable Laws relating to age discrimination.
HONG KONG
The term "prospectus" in this document should be read as "confidential offering materials".
The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. Participants are advised to exercise caution in relation to their participation in the Plan. If a Participant is in any doubt about any of the content of this document or the grant of an Award under the Plan, they should obtain appropriate, independent, professional advice.
 
This document is being sent to Participants for their own personal use and should not be disclosed to third parties.
INDIA
Cash Repatriation
All cash amounts received from the sale of Prudential Shares must be repatriated to India by Indian resident employees within ninety (90) days from the date of receipt. Any foreign exchange due or accrued as income or assets held outside India (such as dividend or dividend equivalents) must be repatriated into rupees within seven (7) days from the date of its receipt.
Fringe Benefit Tax
The Finance Act 2007 provides that any shares of Common Stock transferred by Prudential to a Participant free or at a concessional rate, would be regarded as fringe benefits. The value of fringe benefits is subject to an employer paid Fringe Benefit Tax (), currently 33.99%. Although Prudential currently plans to bear the full FBT liability, Prudential reserves the right to recover the employer's liability to FBT from Participants.
FBT
IRELAND
Prospectus Directive
This document:
 
 
 
ITALY
Stock Options
Term 2 of Part C will not apply to Participants granted Options in Italy but the following will apply.
Options granted to Participants in Italy may only be purchased using the Same Day Sale method. Accordingly, Options are exercised by purchasing the underlying shares of Common Stock and, immediately thereafter, selling the shares of Common Stock purchased. Participants will then receive the cash proceeds after paying the Grant Price, applicable taxes and any related fees. An Option can only be exercised if the Market Value of the Common Stock is equal to or exceeds the Grant Price. As this is the only exercise method available, Participants in Italy will in no circumstances have Common Stock issued to them in respect of the exercise of their Options but will receive a U.S. dollar amount corresponding to the net proceeds of the sale of the Common Stock.
Further, the following wording in the fourth sentence of Term 6(d) of Part A will be deleted:
"Common Stock (rounded to the nearest whole share) equal in value (using the current Fair Market Value of Common Stock on the date the letter of notification of the breach is dated) to",
 
the fifth sentence in Term 6(d) of Part A will be deleted and replaced with the following:
"For the avoidance of doubt, the term "profit" referred to in the preceding sentence will be equal to the sums (determined separately for each exercise of any portion of the Options occurring with in the applicable period established pursuant to such sentence) of the price at which the shares of Common Stock are sold, minus the Grant Price of the Options that were exercised using the Same Day method.",
and the following wording in the sixth sentence in Term 6(d) of Part A will be deleted:
"(in the form of Common Stock)".
KOREA
For employees employed by the Prudential Asset management Co. the Same Day Sale method (a form of cashless exercise) is the only method allowed to exercise an Option.
POLAND
Bank Notification
A Participant must notify the National Bank of Poland each year of the number and value of all overseas stocks (including Prudential common stock) owned by the Participant as at December 31st if the aggregate value of the overseas securities held by the Participant exceeds EUR10,000. Notification should be made to the National Bank of Poland's local office on or before January 30th each year.
Restrictive Covenants
The restrictive covenant set out in Term 6(b)(ii) of Part A of the Terms will not apply.
SINGAPORE
Awards are granted to Participants in Singapore pursuant to the "Qualifying Person" exemption under section 273(1)(f) of the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289, 2006 Ed.) (). An Award is, therefore, subject to the general resale restriction under section 257 of the SFA and Participants undertake not to make any subsequent sale in Singapore, or any offer of sale in Singapore, of any of the shares of Common Stock comprised in the Award unless that sale or offer in Singapore is made pursuant to the exemptions under Part XIII Division (1) Subdivision (4) other than section 280 of the Securities and Futures Act (Cap 289, 2006 Ed.)
SFA
TAIWAN
The Restricted Stock Unit Program is not registered in Taiwan with the Securities and Futures Bureau and is not subject to the securities laws of Taiwan.
UNITED KINGDOM
Restricted Units and Options  section 431(1) election
Awards of Restricted Units or Options are made subject to the Participant entering into a legally enforceable joint election, approved by HMRC under section 431(1) of the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (the "Election"), with the Participant's employer within ten (10) days of the grant of the Award. The Election disapplies, for the purpose of UK income tax only, all of the restrictions attaching to the restricted stock you acquire on the vesting of Restricted Stock Units or on the exercise of Options, with the restrictions continuing to apply in all other respects and for all other purposes.
 
Approved Stock Options
The Options will be subject to the Terms (as modified below) and the terms and conditions set out in the Prudential Financial, Inc. 2007 HMRC Approved Sub-Plan to the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the ""). Term 2 of Part C will not apply to Participants granted HMRC approved options in the UK, but the following will apply:
Sub-Plan
"The approved method of exercise of your Options under the Sub-Plan is a cash exercise, which lets you receive stock, after paying the Grant Price, applicable taxes and fees, in cash any other method will result in an exercise that will not be considered approved by HMRC under the Sub-Plan."
In the table in Term 4, the Type of Termination headed Approved Retirement will not apply and, in the Type of Termination headed Involuntary Termination, other than for Cause, or any other reason, the words "or retirement" will be inserted after the word "Cause".
The provisions of Term 6 of Part A will not apply.
UNITED STATES
Restricted Stock Units  subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, a Participant in active Employment on the Payment Date, will receive on the Payment Date or as soon as administratively practicable (but not later than 90 days after the Payment Date), the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the granted number of Restricted Stock Units, less any taxes or other deductions required by Applicable Law.
Stock Options  for executives subject to the reporting requirements under Section 16(a) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, section 2 of Part C will not apply to executives but the following will apply.
"An Option may be exercised by the Participant:
 
 
The following term will also apply:
If a Participant is an executive subject to the reporting requirements under Section 16(a) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended then the Participant agrees to retain ownership of 50% of the net shares of Common Stock (after payment of the Grant Price, if any, and applicable fees and taxes) acquired on exercise of an Option or the vesting of an Award until the later of (i) one year following the acquisition of that Common Stock; or (ii) the date the Participant has satisfied the Share Ownership Guidelines as amended by the Board of Directors of Prudential from time to time (). Once the Participant has satisfied this holding period the Participant may dispense of any shares of Common Stock held in excess of the Guidelines, subject to the Personal Securities Trading Policy, including the "Reporting Responsibilities and Procedures for Section 16 Officers and Directors and Control Persons of Prudential" as then in effect. This agreement to retain Common Stock applies while a Participant is an insider for the purpose of Section 16(a) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Guidelines
 
With respect to any Participant who is classified as a "Named Executive Officer" under the 2012 annual Proxy Statement, the Restricted Stock Unit grants are intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 162(m) as "other performance based compensation" and the maximum aggregate amount of such Restricted Stock Units payable to such a Participant will not exceed six-tenths of one per cent. (0.6%) of Adjusted Operating Income (as defined in the Plan) for the most recently reported year ending December 31st before the year the Restricted Stock Units are paid.
 
If you wish to decline the grant of either the Restricted Stock Units or the Options granted to you in 2009 pursuant to the 2009 Long-Term Incentive Program under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan you should complete and return this form by facsimile on or before the date three weeks after the Grant Date to Stock Plan Administration c/o Carol Hesse at (973)-367-8251 or by certified mail with return receipt, postmarked on or before the date three weeks after the Grant Date to Stock Plan Administration c/o Carol Hesse, 751 Broad Street, 17th Floor, Newark, New Jersey 07102.
I,                                                                                       , hereby decline the grant of:
 
granted to me on                              2009 under the terms of the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan.
 
 


