FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20100505164014.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.0, a news release announcing first quarter 2010 results.
See also Item 7.01 below, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 5, 2010
 
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today reported net income of its Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $536 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared to a net loss of $5 million for the year-ago quarter. Net income per Common share was $1.15 for the first quarter of 2010 and 1 cent for the year-ago quarter. After-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses was $699 million ($1.49 per Common share) for the first quarter of 2010, compared to $427 million ($1.03 per Common share) for the first quarter of 2009. Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure as discussed below.
NEWARK, N.J. 
"Each of our divisions achieved solid earnings growth for the first quarter, giving us a strong start toward reaching our goals for the year. Our sales momentum and net flows for the first quarter reflect our enhanced competitive position, as clients look to Prudential as a trusted partner offering innovative solutions to meet financial security needs. Our financial strength and flexibility position us well to take advantage of market opportunities, and we are focused on adding quality business that can contribute appropriate returns over market cycles. While we continue to live in uncertain times, I am confident that our balanced portfolio of businesses and talented staff will support our growth of sustainable earnings power over time," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld.
Adjusted operating income is not calculated under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Information regarding adjusted operating income, a non-GAAP measure, is discussed
 
Page 3
 
later in this press release under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures," and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the most comparable GAAP measure is provided in the tables that accompany this release.
Financial Services Businesses
Prudential Financial's Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of its Financial Services Businesses, which consist of its U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance, and International Insurance and Investments divisions and its Corporate and Other operations.
The International Investments segment's Korean asset management operations have been classified as "discontinued operations" and excluded from adjusted operating income for all periods presented, as a result of the company's definitive agreement to sell these operations.
In the following business-level discussion, adjusted operating income refers to pre-tax results.
The reported adjusted operating income of $514 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared to $175 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division
The Individual Annuities segment reported adjusted operating income of $260 million in the current quarter, compared to $17 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited $53 million from net reductions in reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and $21 million from a net reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, reflecting an updated estimate of profitability for this business. These benefits to results were largely driven by increases in customer account values during the current quarter. Mark-to-market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with living benefits, after amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and hedging positions implemented in mid-2009 to mitigate exposure to declines in capital from adverse financial market conditions, resulted in a net benefit of $16 million to current quarter adjusted operating income. In addition,
 
Page 4
 
current quarter results include a net benefit of $25 million from refinements based on review and settlement of reinsurance contracts related to acquired business. Results for the year-ago quarter included a net charge of $327 million from adjustment of reserves and amortization to reflect an update of estimated profitability, largely driven by declines in customer account values associated with adverse financial market conditions during that quarter. In addition, results for the year-ago quarter included a net benefit of $261 million from mark-to-market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with living benefits, primarily driven by the required adjustment of embedded derivative liabilities for living benefits to recognize market-based non-performance risk associated with our own credit standing. Excluding the effect of the foregoing items, adjusted operating income for the Individual Annuities segment increased $62 million from the year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting higher asset-based fees due to growth in variable annuity account values.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $171 million for the current quarter, compared to $159 million in the year-ago quarter. Results for the year-ago quarter benefited $13 million from the required adjustment of liabilities for contract guarantees to recognize market-based non-performance risk. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income of the Retirement segment increased $25 million from the year-ago quarter. The increase resulted primarily from higher fees associated with growth in full service retirement account values and a greater contribution from investment results.
The Asset Management segment reported adjusted operating income of $83 million for the current quarter, compared to a loss of $1 million in the year-ago quarter. Investment results associated with proprietary investing activities contributed income of approximately $5 million in the current quarter compared to losses of approximately $40 million in the year-ago quarter. The remainder of the improvement in results came primarily from increased asset management fees and a greater contribution from performance-based fees.
 
Page 5
 
The reported adjusted operating income of $144 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared to $133 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division
The Individual Life segment reported adjusted operating income of $91 million for the current quarter, compared to $40 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited from lower net amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs primarily relating to separate account performance, together with related costs, reflecting unfavorable financial market conditions in the year-ago quarter.
The Group Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $53 million in the current quarter, compared to $93 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results reflected less favorable group life claims experience than in the year-ago quarter.
The reported adjusted operating income of $496 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared to $432 million in the year-ago quarter.
International Insurance and Investments division
The International Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $484 million for the current quarter, an increase of $59 million from the year-ago quarter. Adjusted operating income of the segment's Life Planner insurance operations increased $33 million, to $327 million for the current quarter from $294 million in the year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting continued business growth and more favorable mortality experience in the current quarter. The segment's Gibraltar Life operations reported adjusted operating income of $157 million for the current quarter, an increase of $26 million from $131 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results for Gibraltar Life include $6 million from the former Yamato Life business acquired on May 1, 2009. Gibraltar Life's current quarter results benefited from a lower level of expenses than that of the year-ago quarter and a greater contribution from investment results associated with fixed annuity products primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, reflecting growth in account values. Foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of the Company's currency hedging programs, had a favorable impact of $8 million on results for the segment's international insurance businesses in comparison to the year-ago quarter, including $5 million within Gibraltar Life.
 
Page 6
 
The International Investments segment reported adjusted operating income of $12 million for the current quarter, compared to $7 million in the year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting improved results from the segment's global commodities operations.
resulted in a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $202 million in the first quarter of 2010, compared to a loss of $175 million in the year-ago quarter. The current quarter loss was primarily driven by interest expense, net of investment income. Net interest costs increased in comparison to the year-ago quarter, reflecting a greater level of capital debt as well as the negative spread associated with the investment of debt issuance proceeds in cash and short-term investments. Current quarter results also reflect higher expenses, including the impact of certain liabilities that are affected by changes in equity and other markets. The Company's real estate and relocation business reported a reduced loss in comparison to the year-ago quarter, with losses amounting to $7 million in the current quarter and $63 million in the year-ago quarter, reflecting more favorable residential real estate market conditions and lower expenses.
Corporate and Other operations
amounted to $693 billion at March 31, 2010, compared to $542 billion a year earlier and $667 billion at December 31, 2009.
Assets under management
of the Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. amounted to $536 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared to a net loss of $5 million in the year-ago quarter.
Net income
Current quarter net income includes $84 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments. Net realized investment losses in the current quarter reflect $292 million of losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired investments. The losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired investments relate primarily to the Company's Japanese insurance operations, including $169 million for fixed maturities and $60 million for equity securities within those operations. The remainder of current quarter impairments relate principally to asset backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. The losses from impairments and
 
Page 7
 
sales of credit-impaired investments were partially offset by $182 million of net increases in market value of derivatives, primarily related to the Company's investment duration management and hedging programs driven by changes in interest rates.
At March 31, 2010, gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $3.702 billion, including $2.628 billion on high and highest quality securities based on NAIC or equivalent ratings. Gross unrealized losses include $1.250 billion related to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses at March 31, 2010 include $1.991 billion of declines in value of 20% or more of amortized cost. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $4.389 billion at December 31, 2009. Net unrealized gains on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $2.429 billion at March 31, 2010, compared to $998 million at December 31, 2009.
Net income for the current quarter also reflects pre-tax increases of $252 million in recorded asset values and $320 million in recorded liabilities representing changes in value which are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. These changes primarily represent interest rate related mark-to-market adjustments. Net income for the current quarter also includes $7 million of pre-tax losses from divested businesses.
Net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the year-ago quarter included $663 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments, increases of $145 million in recorded assets and $45 million in recorded liabilities for which changes in value are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders, and a loss of $32 million from divested businesses, in each case before income taxes.
Closed Block Business
Prudential's Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of its Closed Block Business.
 
Page 8
 
The Closed Block Business includes our in-force participating life insurance and annuity policies, and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies.
The Closed Block Business reported income from continuing operations before income taxes of $259 million for the first quarter of 2010, compared to $30 million for the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include pre-tax net realized investment gains of $274 million, primarily from net increases in market value of derivatives used in investment management duration and hedging programs. The Closed Block Business reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $161 million for the first quarter of 2010 and $19 million for the year-ago quarter.
Consolidated Results
There is no legal separation of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock are both common stockholders of Prudential Financial, Inc.
On a consolidated basis, which includes the results of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, Prudential Financial, Inc. reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $697 million for the first quarter of 2010 compared to $14 million for the year-ago quarter.
Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures
Certain of the statements included in this release constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U. S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "includes," "plans," "assumes," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "should," "will," "shall," or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential
 
Page 9
 
Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) general economic, market and political conditions, including the performance and fluctuations of fixed income, equity, real estate and other financial markets; (2) the availability and cost of external financing for our operations, which has been affected by the stress experienced by the global financial markets; (3) interest rate fluctuations; (4) reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims; (5) differences between actual experience regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, surrender experience, interest rates or market returns and the assumptions we use in pricing our products, establishing liabilities and reserves or for other purposes; (6) changes in our assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, valuation of business acquired or goodwill; (7) changes in our claims-paying or credit ratings; (8) investment losses, defaults and counterparty non-performance; (9) competition in our product lines and for personnel; (10) changes in tax law; (11) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations; (12) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; (13) regulatory or legislative changes, including government actions in response to the stress experienced by the global financial markets; (14) adverse determinations in litigation or regulatory matters and our exposure to contingent liabilities, including in connection with our divestiture or winding down of businesses; (15) domestic or international military actions, natural or man-made disasters including terrorist activities or pandemic disease, or other events resulting in catastrophic loss of life; (16) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures in identifying, monitoring and managing risks; (17) effects of acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including possible difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions; (18) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; (19) changes in assumptions for retirement expense; (20) Prudential Financial, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends or distributions in
 
Page 10
 
light of our ratings objectives and/or applicable regulatory restrictions; and (21) risks due to the lack of legal separation between our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. The foregoing risks are even more pronounced in severe adverse market and economic conditions such as those that began in the second half of 2007 and continued into 2009. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and is under no obligation, to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net," as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments. A significant element of realized investment gains and losses are impairments and credit-related and interest rate-related gains and losses. Impairments and losses from sales of credit-impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles, can vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses, such as interest rate-related gains or losses, is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities as well as our tax and capital profile.
Realized investment gains (losses) within certain of our businesses for which such gains (losses) are a principal source of earnings, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities related to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income also excludes investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes, because these recorded changes in asset and liability values are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. In addition, adjusted
 
Page 11
 
operating income excludes the results of divested businesses, which are not relevant to our ongoing operations. Discontinued operations, which is presented as a separate component of net income under GAAP, is also excluded from adjusted operating income.
We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of the results of operations of the Financial Services Businesses by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. However, adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and the adjustments made to derive adjusted operating income are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. The schedules accompanying this release provide a reconciliation of adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses to income from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP.
The information referred to above, as well as the risks of our businesses described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, should be considered by readers when reviewing forward-looking statements contained in this release. Additional historical information relating to our financial performance is located on our Web site at .
www.investor.prudential.com
Earnings Conference Call
Members of Prudential's senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, May 6, 2010 at 11 a.m. ET, to discuss with the investment community the Company's first quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Company's Investor Relations Web site at: . Please log on fifteen minutes early in the event necessary software needs to be downloaded. The call will remain on the Investor Relations Web site for replay through May 21. Institutional investors, analysts, and other members of the professional financial community are invited to listen to the call and participate in Q&A by dialing (877) 777-1971 (domestic callers) or (612) 332-0226 (international callers). All others are encouraged to dial into the conference call in listen-only mode, using the same numbers. To listen to a replay of the
www.investor.prudential.com
 
Page 12
 
conference call starting at 2:00 p.m. on May 6, through May 13, dial (800) 475-6701 (domestic callers) or (320) 365-3844 (international callers). The access code for the replay is 144583.
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $693 billion of assets under management as of March 31, 2010, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Prudential's diverse and talented employees are committed to helping individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth through a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. In the U.S., Prudential's iconic Rock symbol has stood for strength, stability, expertise and innovation for more than a century. For more information, please visit .
www.news.prudential.com
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Realized investment gains (losses) within certain of our businesses for which such gains (losses) are a principal source of earnings, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
 
 
 
 

 
 
Reference is made to Prudential Financial, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for general information, and consolidated financial information, regarding Prudential Financial, Inc., including its Closed Block Business. All financial information in this document is unaudited.
May 5, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
This quarterly financial supplement reflects, for all periods presented, the classification of the results for the company's Korean asset management operations as discontinued operations as a result of an agreement to sell these operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality (3):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
1. Adjusted operating income before income taxes:
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses that excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net", as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities; change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; results of divested businesses and discontinued operations; earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests; and the related tax effects thereof. Adjusted operating income includes equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and the related tax effects thereof. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and are adjusted for the items above as well.
Realized investment gains (losses) within certain of our businesses for which such gains (losses) are a principal source of earnings, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
2. After-tax adjusted operating income:
Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes.
3. Annualized New Business Premiums:
Premiums from new sales that are expected to be collected over a one year period. Group insurance annualized new business premiums exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage issued under our Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance contract, and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts. Group insurance annualized new business premiums include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. Group disability amounts include long-term care products. Excess (unscheduled) and single premium business for the company's domestic individual life and international insurance operations are included in annualized new business premiums based on a 10% credit.
4. Assets Under Management:
Fair market value or account value of assets which Prudential manages directly in proprietary products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, in separate accounts, wrap-fee products and the general account, and assets invested in investment options included in the Company's products that are managed by third party sub-managers (i.e., the non-proprietary investment options in the Company's products).
5. Attributed Equity:
Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business or attributable to noncontrolling interests.
6. Book value per share of Common Stock:
Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by the number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis.
7. Borrowings - Capital Debt:
Borrowings that are or will be used for capital requirements at Prudential Financial, Inc as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial, Inc., and subsidiary borrowings, utilized for capital requirements.
8. Borrowings - Investment Related:
Debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate, and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences.
9. Borrowings - Securities Business Related:
Debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker-dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations including our discontinued commercial mortgage conduit related activities.
10. Borrowings - Specified Other Businesses:
Borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, the individual annuity business, real estate franchises, and relocation services.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
11. Client Assets:
Fair market value of assets in client accounts of International brokerage operations, Prudential Bank and mortgage loan servicing business, that are not included in Assets Under Management. Prudential does not receive a management or administrative fee on these assets, but may receive a fee for executing trades, custody or recordkeeping services.
12. Earned Premiums:
The portion of a premium, net of any amount ceded, that represents coverage already provided or that belongs to the insurer based on the part of the policy period that has passed.
13. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock:
Net income (loss) for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments modify earnings available to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. Earnings per share of Common Stock based on adjusted operating income (loss) of the Financial Services Businesses reflects these adjustments as well.
14. Full Service:
The Full Service line of business provides retirement plan products and services to public, private and not-for-profit organizations. This business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, participant education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investment funds. This business mainly services defined contribution and defined benefit plans; non-qualified plans are also serviced. For clients with both defined contribution and defined benefit plans, integrated recordkeeping services are available. For participants leaving these plans, a range of rollover products are provided through a broker-dealer bank.
15. Full Service Stable Value:
Our Full Service Stable Value products represent fixed rate options on investment funds offered to customers. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time. Upon termination these products repay account balances at market value immediately or may be liquidated at book value over time. Substantially all of these products are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual resets giving effect to previous investment experience. These products are issued through the general account, separate accounts or client-owned trusts. Profits from partially participating general account products result from the spread between the rate of return on investment assets and the interest rates credited to the customer, less expenses. For fully participating products, generally subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee, we earn fee income.
16. General Account:
Invested assets and policyholder liabilities and reserves for which the Company bears the investment risk. Excludes assets recognized for statutory purposes that are specifically allocated to a separate account. General account assets also include assets of the parent company, Prudential Financial, Inc.
17. Gibraltar Life Advisors:
Insurance representatives for Gibraltar Life.
18. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Administrative Operating Expense Ratios:
Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income.
19. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Benefits Ratios:
Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income.
20. Individual Annuity Account Values in General Account and Separate Account:
Amounts represent the breakdown of invested customer funds in annuities either written or reinsured by the Company.
21. Individual Annuities - Net Amounts at Risk:
Living Benefit Features - For guarantees of benefits that are payable at annuitization, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the present value of the minimum guaranteed annuity payments available to the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in excess of the current account balance. For guarantees of benefits that are payable at withdrawal, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the present value of the minimum guaranteed withdrawal payments available to the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in excess of the current account balance. For guarantees of accumulation balances, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the guaranteed minimum accumulation balance minus the current account balance.
Death Benefit Features - Net amount at risk is generally defined as the current guaranteed minimum death benefit in excess of the current account balance at the balance sheet date.
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
22. Insurance and Annuity Benefits:
Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, and losses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.
23. International Life Planners:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations outside the United States, excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors. Excludes Life Planners associated with discontinued Philippine operations.
24. Non-recourse and Limited-recourse Debt:
Limited and non-recourse borrowing is where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets.
25. Operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income):
Adjusted operating income after-tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits.
An alternative measure to operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income) is return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations). Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) represents income from continuing operations after-tax attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. as determined in accordance with GAAP (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average total attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses. Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) is 8.79% for the three months ended March 31, 2010, 31.43% for the three months ended December 31, 2009, 21.03% for the three months ended September 30, 2009, 12.76% for the three months ended June 30, 2009 and 0.06% for the three months ended March 31, 2009.
26. Policy Persistency - Group Insurance:
Percentage of the premiums in force at the end of the prior year that are still in force at the end of the period (excluding Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Prudential Employee Benefit Plan).
27. Policy Persistency - International Insurance:
13 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their second policy year. 25 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their third policy year.
28. Prudential Agents:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations in the United States.
29. Prudential Agent productivity:
Commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents under contract for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. Excludes commissions on new sales by Prudential Agents hired or departed during the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
30. Ratio of capital debt to total capitalization:
For the purposes of this ratio, we measure "debt" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs and 25% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and we measure "total capitalization" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs, 100% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and attributed equity of the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension / postretirement benefits.
31. Separate Accounts:
Assets of our insurance companies allocated under certain policies and contracts that are segregated from the general account and other separate accounts. The policyholder or contractholder predominantly bears the risk of investments held in a separate account.
32. Wrap-Fee Products:
Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the customer are generally invested in other investment products such as mutual funds.
 
 
RATINGS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS
as of May 5, 2010
 
 
INVESTOR INFORMATION:
 
Common Stock:
Common Stock of Prudential Financial, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PRU.
 


