FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20101103161536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.0, a news release announcing third quarter 2010 results.
See also the response to Item 7.01 below, which is incorporated herein by reference.
See also the response to Item 8.01 below, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adjusted operating income differs from net income and income from continuing operations determined in accordance with GAAP but is the financial measure that the Company uses to analyze the operations of each segment in managing its Financial Services Businesses. See note (1) to the schedule below.
 
 
 
The following schedule shows the effect on results for the periods indicated of the matters described above:
 
Shown below are the contributions of each segment and Corporate and Other operations to adjusted operating income as currently reported for the periods indicated and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income as currently reported of our segments and Corporate and Other operations to income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of operating joint ventures.
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 3, 2010
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today reported net income of its Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $1.167 billion ($2.46 per Common share) for the third quarter of 2010, compared to $1.090 billion ($2.35 per Common share) for the year-ago quarter. After-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses was $1.002 billion ($2.12 per Common share) for the third quarter of 2010, compared to $825 million ($1.78 per Common share) for the third quarter of 2009. Information regarding adjusted operating income, a non-GAAP measure, including an amendment to the definition of adjusted operating income, is provided below.
NEWARK, N.J. 
For the first nine months of 2010, net income for the Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. amounted to $2.501 billion ($5.31 per Common share) compared to $1.623 billion ($3.72 per Common share) for the first nine months of 2009. After-tax adjusted operating income for the first nine months of 2010 for the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $2.107 billion ($4.49 per Common share), compared to $1.891 billion ($4.32 per Common share) for the first nine months of 2009.
"We are pleased with our strong third quarter results, which were driven by our U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management and International Insurance businesses, where we see substantial growth opportunities. Solid value propositions for clients focused on financial security, coupled with expanding distribution, are fueling sustained organic growth. With our acquisition of AIG Star Life and AIG Edison Life expected to close in the first quarter of 2011, we look forward to augmenting our footprint as a leading foreign life insurer in Japan serving protection and retirement needs and building on our success in the Japanese insurance market," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld.
 
 
Page 3
 
Adjusted operating income is not calculated under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Information regarding adjusted operating income, a non-GAAP measure, is discussed later in this press release under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures," and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the most comparable GAAP measure is provided in the tables that accompany this release.
Financial Services Businesses
Prudential Financial's Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of its Financial Services Businesses, which consist of its U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance, and International Insurance and Investments divisions and its Corporate and Other operations.
Effective for third quarter 2010 reporting, the company has amended its definition of adjusted operating income as it relates to living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives, and related hedging activities, associated primarily with variable annuity products. Prior to this amendment, adjusted operating income included the mark-to-market adjustments on the embedded derivatives, including a market-related measure of the company's non-performance risk, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of a hedging program related to the risks of those products, and the related amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, as well as mark-to-market of derivatives under a capital hedge program intended to protect the company's statutory capital under stress scenarios involving severe equity market declines. Under the amended definition, adjusted operating income excludes the mark-to-market adjustments on the embedded derivatives inclusive of the market-related measure of the company's non-performance risk, related hedging activities, and the mark-to-market of derivatives under the capital hedge program. The items excluded from adjusted operating income amounted to an aggregate pre-tax gain of $89 million for the third quarter of 2010. The company views adjusted operating income under the amended definition as a more meaningful presentation of its results for purposes of analyzing the operating performance of its business segments, as the amended definition presents
 
 
Page 4
results on a basis more consistent with the economics of the businesses. Accounting for these products and hedging activities under GAAP has not changed. Adjusted operating income results for earlier periods have been revised to conform to the amended definition.
In the following business-level discussion, adjusted operating income refers to pre-tax results.
The reported adjusted operating income of $855 million for the third quarter of 2010, compared to $461 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division
The Individual Annuities segment reported adjusted operating income of $588 million in the current quarter, compared to $315 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited $245 million from a net reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, and $167 million from net reductions in reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits, reflecting an updated estimate of profitability for this business including updates of actuarial assumptions based on an annual review. Results for the year-ago quarter included a net benefit of $211 million from adjustment of these items to reflect an update of estimated profitability including changes in actuarial assumptions based on an annual review. The benefits to current quarter results were largely driven by increases in market value of customer accounts during the quarter and changes in persistency estimates based on recent experience. Excluding the effect of the foregoing items, adjusted operating income for the Individual Annuities segment increased $72 million from the year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting higher asset-based fees due to growth in variable annuity account values.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $119 million for the current quarter, compared to $117 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include a $15 million charge from a net increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs based on an annual review of actuarial assumptions, while results for the year-ago quarter included an $8 million charge based on a similar annual review. Excluding these items, adjusted operating income of the Retirement segment increased $9 million from the year-ago quarter, primarily from higher fees associated with growth in full service retirement account values.
 
 
Page 5
 
The Asset Management segment reported adjusted operating income of $148 million for the current quarter, compared to $29 million in the year-ago quarter. The increase primarily reflected more favorable results from commercial mortgage and proprietary investing activities as well as higher asset management fees. Results for the segment's commercial mortgage activities in the year-ago quarter include net credit and valuation charges of approximately $40 million, while these items had no net impact on current quarter results. Investment results associated with proprietary investing activities contributed income of approximately $10 million in the current quarter compared to losses of approximately $20 million in the year-ago quarter. The remainder of the improvement in results came primarily from increased asset management fees reflecting growth in assets under management, and from higher performance-based fees primarily related to institutional real estate funds.
The reported adjusted operating income of $251 million for the third quarter of 2010, compared to $307 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division
The Individual Life segment reported adjusted operating income of $190 million for the current quarter, compared to $243 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited from a $52 million net reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs reflecting updates of actuarial assumptions based on an annual review, while results for the year-ago quarter included a net benefit from similar items totaling $55 million as well as $30 million of income from compensation received based on multi-year profitability of third party products we distribute. Excluding these items, adjusted operating income decreased $20 million from a year ago, reflecting less favorable current quarter mortality experience.
The Group Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $61 million in the current quarter, compared to $64 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited $28 million from refinements of group life and disability reserves, primarily reflecting updates of actuarial assumptions based on an annual review. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income decreased $31 million from a year ago, primarily due to less favorable group life underwriting results reflecting claims experience as well as the lapse of certain business that had favorable claims experience in the year-ago quarter.
 
 
Page 6
 
The reported adjusted operating income of $531 million for the third quarter of 2010, compared to $507 million in the year-ago quarter.
International Insurance and Investments division
The International Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $530 million for the current quarter, compared to $500 million in the year-ago quarter. Adjusted operating income of the segment's Life Planner insurance operations was $323 million for the current quarter, compared to $310 million in the year-ago quarter. The $13 million increase in adjusted operating income reflected continued business growth, which was partially offset by a less favorable level of policy benefits and expenses in the current quarter. The segment's Gibraltar Life operations reported adjusted operating income of $207 million for the current quarter, compared to $190 million in the year-ago quarter. Gibraltar Life's results for the year-ago quarter included a benefit of approximately $15 million largely related to initial surrenders of policies following the restructuring of the former Yamato Life business acquired on May 1, 2009. Excluding this item, adjusted operating income from Gibraltar Life increased $32 million. This increase came primarily from a greater contribution from investment results reflecting growth in fixed annuity balances and more favorable returns from several general account asset classes. Results also benefited from more favorable foreign currency exchange rates. Foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of the Company's currency hedging programs, had a favorable impact of $11 million on results for the segment's international insurance businesses in comparison to the year-ago quarter, including $8 million within Gibraltar Life.
The International Investments segment reported adjusted operating income of $1 million for the current quarter, compared to $7 million in the year-ago quarter, reflecting less favorable results from the segment's global commodities operations.
resulted in a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $260 million in the third quarter of 2010, compared to a loss of $203 million in the year-ago quarter. The current quarter loss was primarily driven by interest expense, net of investment income. Net interest costs increased in comparison to the year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting a greater level of capital debt. Corporate and Other results also reflected higher expenses in the current quarter than the year ago quarter. The Company's real estate and relocation business
Corporate and Other operations
 
 
Page 7
reported improved results, with pre-tax income of $19 million in the current quarter compared to $6 million in the year-ago quarter, reflecting an increased contribution from relocation services activities.
amounted to $750 billion at September 30, 2010, compared to $641 billion a year earlier and $667 billion at December 31, 2009.
Assets under management
of the Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. amounted to $1.167 billion for the third quarter of 2010, compared to $1.090 billion in the year-ago quarter.
Net income
Current quarter net income includes $278 million of pre-tax net realized investment gains and related charges and adjustments. The foregoing net realized investment gains in the current quarter include $89 million from products that contain embedded derivatives and associated derivative portfolios that are part of a hedging program related to the risks of these products, as well as mark-to-market of derivatives under a capital hedge program, consistent with the amended definition of adjusted operating income adopted for third quarter 2010 reporting as discussed above. The foregoing net gain from embedded derivatives and hedging activities, and net realized investment gains from general portfolio activities and foreign currency exchange rates, were partially offset by $91 million of losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired investments.
At September 30, 2010, gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $3.181 billion, including $2.209 billion on high and highest quality securities based on NAIC or equivalent ratings. Gross unrealized losses include $1.113 billion related to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses at September 30, 2010 include $1.835 billion of declines in value of 20% or more of amortized cost. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $4.389 billion at December 31, 2009. Net unrealized gains on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $9.615 billion at September 30, 2010, compared to $998 million at December 31, 2009.
Net income for the current quarter also reflects pre-tax increases of $388 million in recorded asset values and $367 million in recorded liabilities representing changes in value which are
 
 
Page 8
expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. These changes primarily represent interest rate related mark-to-market adjustments. Net income for the current quarter also includes $32 million of pre-tax losses from divested businesses.
Net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the year-ago quarter included $377 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments, increases of $694 million in recorded assets and $458 million in recorded liabilities for which changes in value are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders, and income of $25 million from divested businesses, in each case before income taxes.
Closed Block Business
Prudential's Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of its Closed Block Business.
The Closed Block Business includes our in-force participating life insurance and annuity policies, and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies.
The Closed Block Business reported income from continuing operations before income taxes of $114 million for the third quarter of 2010, compared to a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $16 million for the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include pre-tax net realized investment gains of $65 million, compared to pre-tax net realized investment losses of $27 million in the year-ago quarter.
The Closed Block Business reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $77 million for the third quarter of 2010, compared to a net loss of $8 million for the year-ago quarter.
For the first nine months of 2010, the Closed Block Business reported income from continuing operations before income taxes of $777 million, compared to a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $572 million for the first nine months of 2009. The Closed Block Business reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $517 million for the first nine months of 2010, compared to a net loss of $364 million for the first nine months of 2009.
 
 
Page 9
 
Consolidated Results
There is no legal separation of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock are both common stockholders of Prudential Financial, Inc.
On a consolidated basis, which includes the results of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, Prudential Financial, Inc. reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $1.244 billion for the third quarter of 2010 compared to $1.082 billion for the year-ago quarter, and reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $3.018 billion for the first nine months of 2010 and $1.259 billion for the first nine months of 2009.
Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures
Certain of the statements included in this release constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U. S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "includes," "plans," "assumes," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "should," "will," "shall," or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) general economic, market and political conditions, including the performance and fluctuations of fixed income, equity, real estate and other financial markets; (2) the availability and cost of additional debt or equity capital or external financing for our operations; (3) interest rate fluctuations or prolonged periods of low interest rates; (4) the degree to which we choose not to hedge risks, or the potential ineffectiveness or insufficiency of hedging or risk
 
 
Page 10
 
management strategies we do implement, with regard to variable annuity or other product guarantees; (5) any inability to access our credit facilities; (6) reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims; (7) differences between actual experience regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, surrender experience, interest rates or market returns and the assumptions we use in pricing our products, establishing liabilities and reserves or for other purposes; (8) changes in our assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, valuation of business acquired or goodwill; (9) changes in assumptions for retirement expense; (10) changes in our financial strength or credit ratings; (11) statutory reserve requirements associated with term and universal life insurance policies under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX; (12) investment losses, defaults and counterparty non-performance; (13) competition in our product lines and for personnel; (14) difficulties in marketing and distributing products through current or future distribution channels; (15) changes in tax law; (16) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations; (17) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; (18) regulatory or legislative changes, including the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; (19) inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others; (20) adverse determinations in litigation or regulatory matters and our exposure to contingent liabilities, including in connection with our divestiture or winding down of businesses; (21) domestic or international military actions, natural or man-made disasters including terrorist activities or pandemic disease, or other events resulting in catastrophic loss of life; (22) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures in identifying, monitoring and managing risks; (23) effects of acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including possible difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions, including risks associated with the proposed acquisition of certain insurance operations of American International Group, Inc. in Japan; (24) interruption in telecommunication, information technology or other operational systems or failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data on such systems; (25) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; (26) Prudential Financial, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends or distributions in light of our ratings objectives and/or
 
 
Page 11
 
applicable regulatory restrictions; and (27) risks due to the lack of legal separation between our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and is under no obligation, to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net," as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments. A significant element of realized investment gains and losses are impairments and credit-related and interest rate-related gains and losses. Impairments and losses from sales of credit-impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles, can vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses, such as interest rate-related gains or losses, is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities as well as our tax and capital profile.
Realized investment gains (losses) within certain of our businesses for which such gains (losses) are a principal source of earnings, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains and losses from products that contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of a hedging program related to the risk of those products. Adjusted operating income also excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities related to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income also excludes investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes, because these recorded changes in asset and liability values are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. In addition, adjusted operating income excludes the results of divested businesses, which are not relevant to our ongoing operations. Discontinued operations, which is presented as a separate component of net income under GAAP, is also excluded from adjusted operating income.
 
 
Page 12
 
We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of the results of operations of the Financial Services Businesses by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. However, adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and the adjustments made to derive adjusted operating income are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. The schedules accompanying this release provide a reconciliation of adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses to income from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP.
The information referred to above, as well as the risks of our businesses described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, should be considered by readers when reviewing forward-looking statements contained in this release. Additional historical information relating to our financial performance is located on our Web site at .
www.investor.prudential.com
Earnings Conference Call
Members of Prudential's senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, November 4, 2010 at 11 a.m. ET, to discuss with the investment community the Company's third quarter results. In light of the company's recent announcement that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. and AIG Edison Life Insurance Company from American International Group, Inc., senior management will also comment on the company's financial outlook for 2011 and beyond. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Company's Investor Relations Web site at: . Please log on fifteen minutes early in the event necessary software needs to be downloaded. The call will remain on the Investor Relations Web site for replay through November 19. Institutional investors, analysts, and other members of the professional financial community are invited to listen to the call and participate in Q&A by dialing (877) 777-1971 (domestic callers) or (612) 332-0226 (international callers). All others are encouraged to dial into the conference call in listen-only mode, using the same numbers. To listen to a replay of the conference call starting at 2:00 p.m. on November 4, through November 11, dial (800) 475-6701 (domestic callers) or (320) 365-3844 (international callers). The access code for the replay is 144585.
www.investor.prudential.com
 
 
Page 13
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $750 billion of assets under management as of September 30, 2010, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Prudential's diverse and talented employees are committed to helping individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth through a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. In the U.S., Prudential's iconic Rock symbol has stood for strength, stability, expertise and innovation for more than a century. For more information, please visit .
www.news.prudential.com
 
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
 
Realized investment gains (losses) within certain of our businesses for which such gains (losses) are a principal source of earnings, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains and losses from products that contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of a hedging program related to the risk of those products. Adjusted operating income also excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Reference is made to Prudential Financial, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for general information, and consolidated financial information, regarding Prudential Financial, Inc., including its Closed Block Business. All financial information in this document is unaudited.
November 3, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Quarterly Financial Supplement reflects the following for all periods presented herein:
Effective for the third quarter 2010, the company has amended its definition of adjusted operating income as it relates to living benefit guarantees accounted for as embedded derivatives, and related hedging activities, associated primarily with variable annuity products. Prior to this amendment, adjusted operating income included the mark-to-market adjustments on the embedded derivatives, including a market-related measure of the company's non-performance risk, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of a hedging program related to the risks of those products, and the related amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, as well as mark-to-market of derivatives under a capital hedge program intended to protect the company's statutory capital under stress scenarios involving severe equity market declines. Under the amended definition, adjusted operating income excludes the mark-to-market adjustments on the embedded derivatives inclusive of the market-related measure of the company's non-performance risk, related hedging activities, and the mark-to-market of derivatives under the capital hedge program. The company views adjusted operating income under the amended definition as a more meaningful presentation of its results for purposes of analyzing the operating performance of its business segments, as the amended definition presents results on a basis more consistent with the economics of the businesses. Accounting for these products and hedging activities under GAAP has not changed. Adjusted operating income results for earlier periods have been revised to conform to the amended definition.
Supplementary Assets Under Management and Administration information for the Asset Management Segment reported herein reflect certain reclassifications to conform to current reporting practices.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality (3):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
1. Adjusted operating income before income taxes:
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses that excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net", as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities; change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; results of divested businesses and discontinued operations; earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests; and the related tax effects thereof. Adjusted operating income includes equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and the related tax effects thereof. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and are adjusted for the items above as well.
Realized investment gains (losses) within certain of our businesses for which such gains (losses) are a principal source of earnings, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains and losses from products that contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of a hedging program related to the risk of those products. Adjusted operating income also excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
2. After-tax adjusted operating income:
Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes.
3. Annualized New Business Premiums:
Premiums from new sales that are expected to be collected over a one year period. Group insurance annualized new business premiums exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage issued under our Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance contract, and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts. Group insurance annualized new business premiums include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. Group disability amounts include long-term care products. Excess (unscheduled) and single premium business for the company's domestic individual life and international insurance operations are included in annualized new business premiums based on a 10% credit.
4. Assets Under Management:
Fair market value or account value of assets which Prudential manages directly in proprietary products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, in separate accounts, wrap-fee products and the general account, and assets invested in investment options included in the Company's products that are managed by third party sub-managers (i.e., the non-proprietary investment options in the Company's products).
5. Attributed Equity:
Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business or attributable to noncontrolling interests.
6. Book value per share of Common Stock:
Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by the number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis.
7. Borrowings - Capital Debt:
Borrowings that are or will be used for capital requirements at Prudential Financial, Inc as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial, Inc., and subsidiary borrowings, utilized for capital requirements.
8. Borrowings - Investment Related:
Debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate, and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences.
9. Borrowings - Securities Business Related:
Debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker-dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations including our discontinued commercial mortgage conduit related activities.
10. Borrowings - Specified Other Businesses:
Borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, the individual annuity business, real estate franchises, and relocation services.
 
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
11. Client Assets:
Fair market value of assets in client accounts of International brokerage operations, Prudential Bank and mortgage loan servicing business, that are not included in Assets Under Management. Prudential does not receive a management or administrative fee on these assets, but may receive a fee for executing trades, custody or recordkeeping services.
12. Earned Premiums:
The portion of a premium, net of any amount ceded, that represents coverage already provided or that belongs to the insurer based on the part of the policy period that has passed.
13. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock:
Net income (loss) for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments modify earnings available to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. Earnings per share of Common Stock based on adjusted operating income (loss) of the Financial Services Businesses reflects these adjustments as well.
14. Full Service:
The Full Service line of business provides retirement plan products and services to public, private and not-for-profit organizations. This business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, participant education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investment funds. This business mainly services defined contribution and defined benefit plans; non-qualified plans are also serviced. For clients with both defined contribution and defined benefit plans, integrated recordkeeping services are available. For participants leaving these plans, a range of rollover products are provided through a broker-dealer bank.
15. Full Service Stable Value:
Our Full Service Stable Value products represent fixed rate options on investment funds offered to customers. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time. Upon termination these products repay account balances at market value immediately or may be liquidated at book value over time. Substantially all of these products are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual resets giving effect to previous investment experience. These products are issued through the general account, separate accounts or client-owned trusts. Profits from partially participating general account products result from the spread between the rate of return on investment assets and the interest rates credited to the customer, less expenses. For fully participating products, generally subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee, we earn fee income.
16. General Account:
Invested assets and policyholder liabilities and reserves for which the Company bears the investment risk. Excludes assets recognized for statutory purposes that are specifically allocated to a separate account. General account assets also include assets of the parent company, Prudential Financial, Inc.
17. Gibraltar Life Advisors:
Insurance representatives for Gibraltar Life.
18. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Administrative Operating Expense Ratios:
Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income.
19. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Benefits Ratios:
Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income.
20. Individual Annuity Account Values in General Account and Separate Account:
Amounts represent the breakdown of invested customer funds in annuities either written or reinsured by the Company.
21. Individual Annuities - Net Amounts at Risk:
Living Benefit Features - For guarantees of benefits that are payable at annuitization, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the present value of the minimum guaranteed annuity payments available to the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in excess of the current account balance. For guarantees of benefits that are payable at withdrawal, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the present value of the minimum guaranteed withdrawal payments available to the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in excess of the current account balance. For guarantees of accumulation balances, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the guaranteed minimum accumulation balance minus the current account balance.
Death Benefit Features - Net amount at risk is generally defined as the current guaranteed minimum death benefit in excess of the current account balance at the balance sheet date.
 
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
22. Insurance and Annuity Benefits:
Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, and losses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.
23. International Life Planners:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations outside the United States, excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors. Excludes Life Planners associated with discontinued Philippine operations.
24. Non-recourse and Limited-recourse Debt:
Limited and non-recourse borrowing is where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets.
25. Operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income):
Adjusted operating income after-tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits.
An alternative measure to operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income) is return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations). Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) represents income from continuing operations after-tax attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. as determined in accordance with GAAP (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average total attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses. Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) is 12.23% for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, 12.33% for the nine months ended September 30, 2009, 15.52% for the three months ended September 30, 2010, 11.98% for the three months ended June 30, 2010, 8.79% for the three months ended March 31, 2010, 31.43% for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 21.03% for the three months ended September 30, 2009.
26. Policy Persistency - Group Insurance:
Percentage of the premiums in force at the end of the prior year that are still in force at the end of the period (excluding Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Prudential Employee Benefit Plan).
27. Policy Persistency - International Insurance:
13 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their second policy year. 25 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their third policy year.
28. Prudential Agents:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations in the United States.
29. Prudential Agent productivity:
Commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents under contract for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. Excludes commissions on new sales by Prudential Agents hired or departed during the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
30. Ratio of capital debt to total capitalization:
For the purposes of this ratio, we measure "debt" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs and 75% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, (effective June 30, 2010; for periods prior to June 30, 2010, 25% of Junior Subordinated Notes are considered debt) and, for all periods, we measure "total capitalization" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs, 100% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and attributed equity of the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension / postretirement benefits.
31. Separate Accounts:
Assets of our insurance companies allocated under certain policies and contracts that are segregated from the general account and other separate accounts. The policyholder or contractholder predominantly bears the risk of investments held in a separate account.
32. Wrap-Fee Products:
Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the customer are generally invested in other investment products such as mutual funds.
 
 
 
RATINGS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS
as of November 3, 2010
 
 
INVESTOR INFORMATION:
 
Common Stock:
Common Stock of Prudential Financial, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PRU.
 


