FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20100211170135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Set out below is a description of actions taken on February 9, 2010 by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of Prudential Financial, Inc. (the "Company"). Additional information relating to these actions and other executive compensation matters will be included in the Company's definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 11, 2010 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Changes to Executive Compensation Program
At its February 9, 2010 meeting, the Committee approved: (i) changes in its annual incentive award criteria; (ii) the creation of a Mid-Term Incentive Program; and (iii) modifications to its existing Long-Term Incentive Program. These changes are intended to align the interests of executives and shareholders and to promote and enhance, among other things: the attraction and retention of executive talent through competitive compensation opportunities; the linkage between pay and performance; the appropriate balance between operating and market driven performance factors; the encouragement of long-term sustainable performance; risk management, including the appropriate balance between equity and equity based incentives and other forms of incentives to mitigate excessive risk taking and allow prudent diversification; and best practices related to executive compensation.
. Attached as Exhibit 10.1 are revised Annual Incentive Payment Criteria for Executive Officers relating to annual incentive awards to the Company's executive officers, commencing with those to be made in 2011 in respect of 2010. These criteria are intended to simplify the methodology for measuring performance and to align annual incentive awards to the Company's key financial targets for earnings per share (EPS), adjusted operating income (AOI) and return on equity (ROE) of its Financial Services Businesses.
Annual Incentive Award Criteria
. The Committee approved a Mid-Term Incentive Program under the Company's Omnibus Incentive Plan. The Mid-Term Incentive Program is intended to (i) complement our short-term and long-term programs; (ii) link payments to a measure of book value per share, a metric closely followed by investors; and (iii) subject payments to a forfeiture or "clawback" feature. Unlike financial metrics based on AOI used in the Company's executive compensation program, such book value per share measure considers realized gains and losses in the Company's investment portfolio. Awards under the Mid-Term Incentive Program are denominated in book value units funded by a carve-out of 20% of a participating executive officer's long-term incentive compensation value and, beginning in 2011 for awards in respect of 2010, a mandatory deferral of 10% of a participating executive officer's annual incentive award. Amounts for each participant will be maintained in an account, the balance of which will be periodically adjusted for changes in book value. One-third of each year's award will be distributed annually in cash. The account balance of any participant may be subject to forfeiture or "clawback" under certain circumstances in the event of a material restatement of the Company's financial statements (other than as the result of a change in applicable accounting standards).
Mid-Term Incentive Program
. The Committee approved modifications to its existing Long-Term Incentive Program under the Omnibus Incentive Plan. The Long-Term Incentive Program provides for the award of the remaining long-term compensation value after the 20% carve-out for the Mid-Term Incentive Program in the form of stock options (50%), performance shares (25%) and performance units (25%). Performance units are denominated in share equivalents and have the same value as performance shares on the award payment date. Performance share and performance unit awards are granted for a three-year performance period with the preliminary payout determined each year as to one-third of the target award based on the Company's annual performance against its ROE and EPS goals. This preliminary payout is subject to adjustment by the Committee to take into account any significant items that, in its judgment, do not accurately reflect the Company's operating performance and to reflect the actual performance of the Standard & Poors 500 Index during the performance year relative to the Company's operating plan assumptions. The payout also may be adjusted by the Committee, in its discretion, by up to plus or minus 15% of the earned awards, based on its evaluation of other quantitative and qualitative factors including, but not limited to foreign exchange rate variations, net income, the Company's performance relative to its peer group, the Company's credit ratings and other strategic development factors. In the event of circumstances deemed to be extraordinary by the Committee, the Committee reserves the right to make additional adjustments to the final award values (either on an individual basis or for all participants). At the end of the performance period, awards of performance shares will be paid in shares of the Company's Common Stock and awards of performance units will be paid in cash.
Long-Term Incentive Program
 
. The Committee approved technical amendments to the Omnibus Incentive Plan to facilitate the award of performance units and book value units under the Mid-Term Incentive Program and Long-Term Incentive Program as described above. A copy of the amendment is attached as Exhibit 10.2.
Amendment to Omnibus Incentive Plan
. Attached as Exhibit 10.3 is the form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards to executive officers in 2010 of book value units pursuant to the 2010 Mid-Term Incentive Program and of stock options, performance shares and performance units under the 2010 Long-Term Incentive Program.
Terms and Conditions
Terms and Conditions of Restricted Stock Units
On December 31, 2009, the Company completed the sale, for $4.5 billion, to Wells Fargo & Company of the Company's minority joint venture interest in Wachovia Securities Financial Holdings, LLC, which included the Wells Fargo Advisors (formerly Wachovia Securities) retail securities brokerage business. The Company had contributed its Prudential Securities retail securities brokerage operations to the joint venture in July 2003.
Attached as Exhibit 10.4 is the Form of Terms and Conditions relating to awards in 2010 of restricted stock units to executive officers in recognition of their extraordinary efforts and contributions over a period of more than seven years in connection with the establishment of the joint venture, the ongoing management of the Company's investment therein and its successful disposition.
"Adjusted operating income", or "AOI", referred to above, differs from, and should not be viewed as a substitute for, income from continuing operations or net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but is the financial measure that the Company uses to analyze the operations of each segment in managing its Financial Services Businesses. EPS and ROE, referred to above, are determined on the basis of after-tax adjusted operating income.
 
(d) .
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 11, 2010
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
Annual incentives for executive officers, including the CEO, are paid through the Company Annual Incentive Pool, which is funded based on an assessment of performance relative to key financial and strategic objectives. The starting point for the current year's pool is the final pool from the prior year. This amount is then adjusted throughout the year for changes in headcount and in business financial performance.
Financial performance is measured relative to the Company's annual financial targets for earnings per share (EPS) on an adjusted operating income (AOI) basis, pre-tax AOI, and operating return on average equity (ROE) on an AOI basis for the Financial Services Businesses. Adjustments may be made to published data on these metrics to more accurately reflect the operating performance of the Company's businesses and to take into account financial market performance relative to the assumptions used in establishing the targets. Performance relative to these targets provides an initial pool amount before considering strategic factors and judgment.
The strategic factors are in the following categories:
 
 
 
Allocation of incentive bonuses among executives is discretionary with consideration given to the change in the size of the pool, performance of the business(es) managed by the executive, individual performance and contributions, and value of the position in the marketplace.
"Adjusted operating income", or "AOI", referred to above, differs from, and should not be viewed as a substitute for, income from continuing operations or net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but is the financial measure that the Company uses to analyze the operations of each segment in managing its Financial Services Businesses. EPS and ROE, referred to above, are determined on the basis of after-tax adjusted operating income.

Exhibit 10.2
Pursuant to the power reserved to it in Section 11.1 of the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (the "Plan"), the Plan is hereby amended, effective February 9, 2010, as follows:
Section 2.1(ff) of the Plan is hereby restated in its entirety as follows:
"Long-Term Performance Unit Award. A "Long-Term Performance Unit Award" means an Award made pursuant to Article IX of the Plan, which are units valued either by reference to Common Stock, equity attributable to the Company, or such other property (including, but not limited to, cash) as may be determined by the Compensation Committee from time to time, the number or value of such units which may be adjusted over a Performance Cycle based on the satisfaction of Performance Goals."

Exhibit 10.3
IMPORTANT NOTICE
This document is intended to help you understand the main features of the 2010 Mid-Term Incentive Program (the ) and 2010 Long-Term Incentive Program (the ) under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the ). You should refer to this document for grants made in 2010, because terms may change from year to year.
Mid-Term Program
Long-Term Program
Plan
only
This document is not a substitute for the official Plan documents, which govern the operation of the Plan. All terms and conditions of the Mid-Term Program, the Long-Term Program and the Plan, including your eligibility and any benefits, will be determined pursuant to, and are governed by, the provisions of the Plan documents. If there is any discrepancy between the information in this document or in any other materials relating to the Plan and the actual Plan documents, or if there is a conflict between information discussed by anyone acting on behalf of Prudential and the actual Plan documents, the Plan documents, as interpreted by the Compensation Committee as the Plan administrator in its sole discretion, will always govern.
Prudential may, in its sole discretion, modify, amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan, including either or both the Mid-Term Program or the Long-Term Program, or any and all of the policies, programs and plans described in this document in whole or in part, at any time, without notice to or consent of any Participant to the extent permissible under applicable law.
Nothing contained in this document, or in any other materials related to either the Mid-Term Program, the Long-Term Program or the Plan, is intended to constitute or create a contract of employment nor shall it constitute or create the right to remain associated with or in the employ of Prudential for any particular period of time. For US Participants only employment with Prudential is employment-at-will; this means that either you or Prudential may terminate the employment relationship or association at any time, with or without cause or notice.
 
This document contains the principal terms and conditions applicable to Awards granted to employees under the Prudential Financial Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the ) for 2010. Specific provisions applicable to any employees selected to participate in any particular country or in the European Union are set out in Schedule 2.
Plan
PART A: General terms and conditions
 
Prudential's 2010 Mid-Term Incentive Program (the ) and 2010 Long-Term Incentive Program (the ) are made available to employees subject to the terms of the Plan and are designed to strengthen the links between leadership, motivation and consistent performance. Employees selected to participate in the Mid-Term Program will be granted Performance Units valued by reference to the book value of the Common Stock (the ). Employees selected to participate in the Long-Term Program may be granted Awards of Restricted Stock Units, Options, Performance Shares, Performance Units, or a combination thereof, and will be advised of the Awards made to them in their own personalized compensation statement or a communication from their manager.
Mid-Term Program
Long-Term Program
Book Value Units
The grant of Awards under either of these programs is subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Plan document. This document describes the principal terms and conditions of Awards granted to employees under the Plan (the ). The Schedule to these Terms contains the definitions used in these Terms. If there is any discrepancy between these Terms and the Plan document, or if there is a discrepancy between any information given by anyone acting on behalf of any member of the Company Group and the Plan document, the Plan document, as interpreted by the Compensation Committee, will always govern.
Terms
 
Grants of Awards under the Plan are entirely at the sole discretion of Prudential.
A grant of an Award under the Plan on one occasion does not give an employee the right to any further grant at any time in the future.
 
An employee granted an Award may accept the Award in any manner specified by the Compensation Committee (or the Company Group) and may be deemed to have accepted an Award if the employee has not declined the grant of that Award (in whole or in part) within any period of time specified by the Compensation Committee (or the Company Group) and notified to the employee.
By accepting an Award, a Participant will be responsible for complying with any Applicable Laws relating to:
 
 
 
The Applicable Laws may change and Participants should seek their own professional legal, financial and taxation advice in relation to their participation in the Plan.
Prudential or any member of the Company Group, as appropriate, has the right to deduct, report and account for any taxes or other obligations required to be withheld by law in connection with an Award. Prudential (or, as appropriate, any other member of the Company Group) may require a Participant to pay to Prudential (or, if appropriate, any other member of the Company Group) the amount necessary to satisfy any such taxes or other obligations and may defer delivery of shares of Common Stock under the Plan to a Participant until such withholding is satisfied. On the exercise of an Option or the Vesting of Restricted Stock Units or Performance Shares, Prudential or, if appropriate, any other member of the Company Group, will have the right to withhold, either through payroll, through the withholding of sufficient shares of Common Stock or otherwise, in order to satisfy any applicable withholding requirements on the exercise of an Option or the Vesting of Restricted Stock Units or Performance Shares. Participants will be responsible for ensuring that their own tax affairs in connection with the Plan are in order.
 
Prudential makes no representation as to the future value of any Award under the Plan or whether any profit will be realized with respect to any Award. Past performance may not be a reliable guide to future performance. Investments may fall as well as rise in value. By accepting the grant of an Award, a Participant agrees that Prudential and the other members of the Company Group are not responsible for foreign exchange fluctuations between the Participant's local currency and the U.S. dollar and are not liable for any decrease in the value of shares of Common Stock. Changes in exchange rates may have an adverse effect on the value, price or income of the securities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Awards granted under the Plan and Prudential's obligation to deliver shares of Common Stock or make payment of cash, as applicable, under these Terms will be subject in all respects to (a) all Applicable Laws, and (b) any registration, qualification, approvals or other requirements imposed by any government or regulatory agency or body which the Compensation Committee determines to be necessary or applicable. Shares of Common Stock or cash, as applicable, may not be delivered or paid to a Participant if their receipt would be contrary to any Applicable Laws or the rules of any applicable stock exchange.
 
If at the time of delivery of any shares of Common Stock under the Plan, the Common Stock is not registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), or there is no current prospectus in effect under the Securities Act with respect to the Common Stock, a Participant will, if requested by the Compensation Committee, execute, before the delivery of any shares of Common Stock, an agreement (in the form the Compensation Committee specifies) in which the Participant represents and warrants that the Participant is acquiring the shares for the Participant's own account, for investment only and not with a view to the resale or distribution of the shares, and agrees that any subsequent offer for sale or distribution of any kind of such shares will be made only pursuant to either (a) a registration statement on an appropriate form under the Securities Act, which registration statement has become effective and is current with regard to the shares being offered or sold; or (b) a specific exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, but in claiming that exemption, the Participant will, before any offer for sale of the shares, obtain a prior favorable written opinion, in form and substance satisfactory to the Compensation Committee, from counsel for or approved by the Compensation Committee, as to the applicability of the exemption.
Securities Act
 
A Participant acknowledges that Prudential is organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey and maintains its headquarters in Newark, New Jersey. The Participant further acknowledges that Prudential has an interest in ensuring the uniform interpretation and application of these Terms to all Participants. Accordingly, Prudential and the Participant agree that the Plan and these Terms will be governed by the laws of the State of New Jersey, without giving effect to its conflict of law provisions.
 
By accepting an Award under the Plan, a Participant agrees, to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Laws, in lieu of receiving documents in paper format to accept electronic delivery of any documents that any member of the Company Group may be required to deliver in connection with the Plan. Electronic delivery
of a document may be via e-mail or by reference to a location on a member of the Company Group's intranet site or a designated third-party vendor's internet site.
 
A Participant does not have any rights as a shareholder in Prudential by virtue of the grant of an Award under the Plan, but only with respect to shares of Common Stock, if any, delivered to the Participant in accordance with the Plan and these Terms.
 
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no acceleration of the time or schedule of any delivery of shares or other payment related to an Award will be permitted to the extent necessary to comply with Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued under Section 409A. The Compensation Committee may amend, modify, adjust or supplement any provision of the Plan without a Participant's consent if the Compensation Committee determines that the amendment, modification, adjustment or supplementation is required or advisable for an Award or Prudential to comply with, or not violate, any Applicable Laws, regulation or rule, including, without limitation, Code Section 409A.
 
Participation in the Plan does not entitle an employee of the Company Group to any benefit other than that granted under the Plan. Any benefits granted under the Plan will not be deemed to be compensation under any pension plan or other retirement plan, welfare plan or any compensation plan or program maintained by any member of the Company Group, and will not be considered as part of compensation for the purposes of calculating pension, profit-sharing, bonuses, service awards, or in the event of severance, redundancy or resignation.
Prudential may modify, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any and all of the policies, programs and terms of the Plan in whole or in part, at any time, without notice to or with the consent of Participants.
If shares of Common Stock are, or are to be, delivered in a manner not specifically authorized by the Plan, (i.e., in "Error"), Prudential will be entitled to correct the Error, including reversing the transaction and recouping any Common Stock or gain that might be delivered as a result of the Error.
The English language version of any documents provided in connection with the Plan will prevail in the case of any ambiguities or divergences as a result of the translation of the document into any other language.
Participation in the Plan is not intended to constitute or create a contract of employment nor does it constitute or create the right to remain associated with or in the employ of any member of the Company Group for any particular period of time. Participation in the Plan does not affect in any way a member of the Company Group's right to terminate an employee's Employment at any time, with or without cause, and does not form part of an employee's employment contract, if any.
 
The restricted period (the ) with respect to the Restricted Stock Units will begin on the Grant Date and will end on the RSU Payment Date.
Restricted Period
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, a Participant in active Employment on the RSU Payment Date will receive as soon as administratively practicable after the RSU Payment Date (but not later than the end of the calendar year in which the RSU Payment Date occurs) the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Restricted Stock Units vested in accordance with these Terms, less any taxes or other deductions required by Applicable Law.
 
A Participant's outstanding Restricted Stock Units will automatically be forfeited and cancelled on the termination of the Participant's Employment and no shares of Common Stock may thereafter be issued with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, except in the specific circumstances set out in the table below:
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, to the extent necessary to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued under Section 409A with respect to any individual who is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A and the final regulations, on termination of the Participant's employment with any member of the Company Group, delivery of shares of Common Stock may not be made before the date that is six (6) months after the date of such termination of Employment (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death). In addition, to the extent necessary to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued under Code Section 409A, if an award of Restricted Stock Units is treated as deferred compensation subject to such Code Section 409A, no distribution will be made (although vesting will accelerate to the extent otherwise provided above) in respect of such award upon the occurrence of a Change of Control unless such event qualifies as a change in the ownership of a corporation, change in the effective control of a corporation or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation within the meaning of such Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued thereunder.
 
A Participant granted Restricted Stock Units will be eligible to receive Dividend Equivalents on the Restricted Stock Units based on any regular cash dividends declared on Common Stock from the Grant Date until the RSU Payment Date (or until the date of forfeiture, if sooner). Any Dividend Equivalents will be
paid in cash as soon as administratively practicable (but not more than 74 days) after the related cash dividends are paid to Common Stock holders, unless determined otherwise by the Compensation Committee. Any Dividend Equivalents payable under the Plan will be treated as separate payments from the underlying Restricted Stock Units for purposes of Section 409A of the Code. There will be no reinvestment option or earned interest credits on any Dividend Equivalent.
 
An Option will normally vest and become exercisable in three equal annual installments on each anniversary of the Grant Date provided the Participant holding that Option remains in Employment throughout that period.
 
An Option may be exercised by the Participant:
 
 
 
One or more of the exercise methods may not be available (or may be unavailable during a specified period) if Prudential determines that its availability will or could violate the terms of any Applicable Laws. An Option cannot be exercised when the Market Value of a share of Common Stock does not exceed the Grant Price. Please refer to Schedule 2 for country specific restrictions regarding the exercise of Options.
 
Once an Option vests, it may be exercised until its Expiration Date unless the Participant's employment ends before the Expiration Date or a Change of Control occurs.
A Participant's Options, whether vested or unvested, will automatically be forfeited and cancelled on the termination of the Participant's Employment, and no shares of Common Stock may thereafter be purchased under the Options, except in the specified circumstances set out in the table below:
 
 
 
The Performance Cycle (the ) with respect to Performance Shares and Performance Units will begin on January 1, 2010 and will end on December 31, 2012.
Performance Cycle
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and following approval by the Compensation Committee, any (i) shares of Common Stock to which a Participant is entitled in respect of Performance Shares and (ii) amount of cash to which a Participant is entitled in respect of Performance Units will be delivered or paid to such Participant as soon as administratively practicable (but not later than 74 days) after the PS/PU Payment Date, less any taxes or other deductions required by Applicable Law.
 
A Participant's Performance Shares and Performance Units are conditioned on achievement of specified annual ROE and EPS goals, as established by the Compensation Committee with respect to each year during the Performance Cycle.
ROE is defined as Prudential's "Operating return on average equity (based on after-tax adjusted operating income)" as publicly disclosed in Prudential's Quarterly Financial Supplement ("QFS"). ROE for each year in the Performance Cycle is defined as the average of the quarterly ROE figures for such year published in the QFS.
EPS is defined as the "Earnings Per Share of Common Stock (diluted): Financial Services Businesses after-tax adjusted operating income" as publicly disclosed in the QFS, normalized for significant one-time charges or benefits that do not accurately reflect the operating performance of Prudential's businesses as and to the extent determined by the Compensation Committee.
The number of shares of Common Stock and the amount of cash that a Participant may become entitled to receive will be determined based on actual performance against annual ROE and EPS Goals for each year in the Performance Cycle. At the end of each calendar year during the Performance Cycle, a Participant will be deemed to have earned a number of shares of Common Stock and an amount of cash equal to one-third (
 1
/
3
) the target number of Performance Shares and Performance Units, respectively, multiplied by the average of the sum of the Earned Payout Factor determined based on the actual achievement of the ROE Goals and EPS Goals for that year, as determined by the Compensation Committee. Any resulting number of shares of Common Stock shall be rounded to the nearest whole number. The number of shares of Common Stock deemed earned and the amount of cash deemed payable in respect of each year in the Performance Cycle will be called the "Yearly Payout Amount." Subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions set out in these Terms and in the Plan, including the requirement that the Participant remain actively employed with the Company Group as of the PS/PU Payment Date, shortly following the end of the Performance Cycle, the Participant will be paid the number of shares of Common Stock and the amount of cash equal to the sum of the Yearly Payout Amounts for the three years in the Performance Cycle. Such aggregate amount of shares of Common Stock and cash is referred to as the "Final Payout Amount." The Compensation Committee will determine, in its sole discretion, the Yearly Payout Amount for each year in the Performance Cycle and the Final Payout Amount.
The 2010 ROE Goals are as follows:
 
The 2010 EPS Goals are as follows:
 
The Compensation Committee will, in its sole discretion, set the ROE and EPS Goals for each subsequent year in the Performance Cycle.
If the actual ROE or EPS is between any two data points, the corresponding Earned Payout Factor will bear a linear relationship with the actual achievement between such data points.
In the event of a significant acquisition (as determined by the Compensation Committee in its sole discretion) involving Common Stock or a divestiture or other transaction involving Prudential or any other member of the Company Group during the Performance Cycle, the Compensation Committee may, in its sole discretion, assess the impact of any such event on the average ROE and EPS Goals and adjust such goals and related payout scales as the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, may (i) under normal circumstances, adjust the Final Payout Amount, by up to plus or minus 15% within the 0% to 150% of the target number of Performance Shares and Performance Units, to take into account critical performance factors and other events, as the Compensation Committee deems desirable, and (ii) in the event of circumstances deemed to be extraordinary by the Compensation Committee, make additional adjustments to the Final Payout Amount.
A Participant's outstanding Performance Shares and Performance Units will automatically be forfeited and cancelled on the termination of the Participant's Employment and no shares of Common Stock and no amount of cash may thereafter be issued or paid with respect to the Performance Shares and Performance Units, respectively, except in the specific circumstances set out in the table below:
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, to the extent necessary to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued under Section 409A with respect to any individual who is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A and the final regulations, on termination of the Participant's employment with any member of the Company Group, delivery of shares of Common Stock may not be made before the date that is six (6) months after the date of such termination of Employment (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death). In addition, to the extent necessary to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued under Code Section 409A, if an award of Performance Shares or Performance Units is treated as deferred compensation subject to such Code Section 409A, no distribution will be made (although vesting will accelerate to the extent otherwise provided above) in respect of such award upon the occurrence of a Change of Control unless such event qualifies as a change in the ownership of a corporation, change in the effective control of a corporation or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation within the meaning of such Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued thereunder.
 
A Participant granted Performance Shares and Performance Units will be eligible to receive Dividend Equivalents on the lesser of (a) the Final Payout Amount; or (b) the respective target amount of Performance Shares and Performance Units, based on any regular cash dividends declared on Common Stock from the Grant Date until the PS/PU Payment Date (or until the date of forfeiture, if sooner). Any Dividend Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as administratively practicable after shares of common stock are delivered in respect of the corresponding Performance Shares and cash is payable with respect to the Performance Units. There will be no reinvestment option or earned interest credits on any Dividend Equivalent.
 
Each Participant in the Mid-Term Program will be granted a number of Book Value Units determined by dividing (a) 20% of the initial compensation value of the Participant's 2010 long-term incentive award (as determined before the allocation to the Mid-Term Program) by (b) the Book Value Per Share of Common Stock. For the purpose of determining the number of Book Value Units to be granted to a Participant, the relevant period will be the fiscal quarter ended on or immediately before the Grant Date.
 
One-third of each Participant's Book Value Units will vest on each of the first three anniversaries of the Grant Date.
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and subject to the Participant's continued Employment through the applicable BVU Payment Date, as soon as administratively practicable after the date any Book Value Units vest (but not later than the end of the calendar year in which the Book Value Units vest), a Participant will be paid an amount in cash equal to the product of (a) the number of Book Value Units that have become vested and (b) the Book Value Per Share as of the fiscal quarter ended on or immediately before the applicable BVU Payment Date, less any taxes or other deductions required by Applicable Law.
 
A Participant's outstanding Book Value Units will automatically be forfeited and cancelled on the termination of the Participant's Employment and no amount may thereafter be payable with respect to the Book Value Units, except in the specific circumstances set out in the table below:
 
 
The Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine the Book Value Units, the Book Value Per Share, and any amount of payments thereof.
 
Notwithstanding any provisions in these Terms to the contrary, the Compensation Committee may, in its sole discretion, reduce (but not below zero) the account balance of any Participant under the Mid-Term Program if, in the opinion of the Compensation Committee, the Participant has engaged in conduct, or omitted taking appropriate action, which is a contributing factor in the material restatement of any annual Prudential consolidated income statement, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and as discussed with Prudential's Audit Committee, with such restatement being filed primarily to correct an error in the consolidated income statement. Any determination by the Compensation Committee regarding such a reduction shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties.
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, to the extent necessary to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued under Section 409A with respect to any individual who is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A and the final regulations, on termination of the Participant's employment with any member of the Company Group, payment of any cash amount due may not be made before the date that is six (6) months after the date of such termination of Employment (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death). In addition, to the extent necessary to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued under Section 409A, if an award of Book Value Units is treated as deferred compensation subject to such Code Section 409A, no distribution will be made (although vesting will accelerate to extent otherwise provided above) in respect of such award upon the occurrence of a Change of Control unless such event qualifies as a change in the ownership of a corporation, change in the effective control of a corporation or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation within the meaning of such Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued thereunder.
 
A Participant granted Book Value Units will not be eligible to receive Dividend Equivalents on the Book Value Units.
For the purposes of the Terms, the following words and expressions have the meanings ascribed to them.
 applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to any Awards made under the Plan or otherwise relating to the Plan;
Applicable Laws
 termination of a Participant's Employment:
Approved Retirement
 
 
Approved Retirement does not apply to any Participant who has an Agent Emeritus contract with any of Prudential's insurance affiliates or to a Participant whose Employment is terminated for Cause, even if, in either case, the Participant is receiving retirement benefits or is otherwise eligible for retirement or has satisfied the conditions in (ii) above.
 the grant of an Option, a Restricted Stock Unit, a Performance Share, or a Performance Unit (including Book Value Unit), or a combination thereof.
Award
 the board of directors of Prudential.
Board
 the equity attributed to Prudential's Financial Services businesses, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits, as determined based on Prudential's financial statements for the relevant period.
Book Value Per Share
 an award of Performance Units, payable in cash, but valued based on the Book Value Per Share.
Book Value Unit
 the dates on which the continuing service requirement applicable to one-third of the Book Value Units are scheduled to lapse, as specified by the Compensation Committee at the Grant Date, which occur on the first three anniversaries of the Grant Date.
BVU Payment Dates
 includes but is not restricted to any of the following (as determined by the Compensation Committee): (i) dishonesty, fraud or misrepresentation; (ii) inability to obtain or retain appropriate licenses; (iii) violation of any rule or regulation of any regulatory agency or self-regulatory agency; (iv) violation of any policy or rule of Prudential or any subsidiary; (v) commission of a crime; (vi) breach by a Participant of any covenant or agreement with any member of the Company Group not to disclose or misuse any information pertaining to, or misuse any property of, any member of the Company Group, or (vii) any act or omission detrimental to the conduct of the business of any member of the Company Group.
Cause
 occurs, in general, when (i) any person or entity outside of Prudential acquires, directly or indirectly, twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the combined voting power of Prudential or of the combined assets of Prudential (and its subsidiaries); (ii) the composition of Prudential's Board of Directors changes over a 24-month period such that the Incumbent Directors no longer constitute a majority of the Board of Directors; (iii) a Corporate Event completes and immediately following completion the shareholders of Prudential immediately before the Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a
Change of Control
majority of the voting power of, in the case of (a) a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation; (b) a share exchange, the acquiring corporation; or (c) a division or a sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the consolidated assets of Prudential immediately before the Corporate Event; or (iv) any other event that the Board declares to be a Change of Control.
No change of control occurs on an underwritten offering of the equity securities of Prudential when no person or entity acquires more than twenty-five percent (25%) ownership in such securities. The Plan document details how a Change of Control will be determined in various types of acquisitions and corporate reorganization events (including sales of assets), and the document's terms govern any determination that a Change of Control has occurred.
 the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 a share of Common Stock in Prudential.
Common Stock
 Prudential and/or its subsidiaries.
Company Group
 the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Prudential, which administers the Plan.
Compensation Committee
 a merger, consolidation, recapitalisation or reorganisation, share exchange, division, sale, plan of complete liquidation or dissolution, or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Prudential which has been approved by the shareholders of Prudential.
Corporate Event
 means, with respect to any Participant, long-term disability as defined under the welfare benefit plan maintained by the member of the Company Group in which the Participant participates and from which the Participant is receiving a long-term disability benefit. In jurisdictions outside the United States where long-term disability is covered by a mandatory or universal program sponsored by the government or an industrial association, receipt of long-term disability benefit from such a program is considered to have met the disability definition of the Plan.
Disability
 an amount paid in lieu of dividends declared on Common Stock during a period that an applicable Award is outstanding.
Dividend Equivalent
 means employment with any member of the Company Group.
Employment
 the date on which an Option is validly exercised.
Exercise Date
 the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date and the last date on which an Option can be exercised, unless the Participant's Employment ends before the Expiration Date or a Change of Control occurs.
Expiration Date
 with respect to an Award, the date on which it is granted under the Plan.
Grant Date
 the price set at the Grant Date at which a share of Common Stock can be acquired on exercise of an Option.
Grant Price
 with respect to any period of time specified under the Plan for the purposes of determining a Change of Control, the persons who were members of the Board at the beginning of the period, including any director elected to the Board or nominated for election to the Board by a majority of the Incumbent Directors.
Incumbent Directors
 means, on any date, the price at which shares of Common Stock were last traded on that date on the New York Stock Exchange or, if there are no transactions on that date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which there was a transaction. For the purposes of determining the taxable income from Options and/or Restricted Stock Units, it should be noted that in some countries there are specific rules that set out how Market Value is determined. Where applicable, any particular rules should be noted in the country specific Q&A's.
Market Value
 a conditional right granted under the Plan to purchase one share of Common Stock in the future at a set price within a set time period specified by the Compensation Committee at the Grant Date.
Option
 any employee of a member of the Company Group who holds an outstanding Award granted under the Plan.
Participant
 the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan, a stock-based compensation plan adopted by the Board of Directors and ratified by the shareholders of Prudential in June 2003.
Plan
 a right to receive a share of Common Stock, conditioned and subject to adjustment upon the achievement of specified performance goals during the applicable performance period, and further subject to satisfaction of the applicable continued service requirements.
Performance Share
 a right to receive cash valued by reference to a share of Common Stock, conditioned and subject to adjustment upon the achievement of specified performance goals during the applicable performance period, and further subject to satisfaction of the applicable continued service requirements.
Performance Unit
 the date on which the continuing service requirement applicable to a Performance Share or a Performance Unit is scheduled to lapse, as specified by the Compensation Committee at the Grant Date, which is the third anniversary of the Grant Date.
PS/PU Payment Date
 Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, and any successor to Prudential Financial, Inc.
Prudential
 a Separation Agreement and General Release (in connection with an involuntary termination of employment for any reason other than Cause) or a General Release of Claims (in connection with a voluntary termination of employment), whichever is appropriate, in a form and with terms and conditions (including but not limited to, non-solicitation of employees and business of any member of the Company Group) satisfactory to Prudential.
Release
 a conditional right (which is subject to forfeiture and transfer restrictions) granted under the Plan to receive one share of Common Stock at the end of a period of time specified by the Compensation Committee at the Grant Date.
Restricted Stock Unit
 the date on which the continuing service requirement applicable to a Restricted Stock Unit is scheduled to lapse, as specified by the Compensation Committee at the Grant Date, which is the third anniversary of the Grant Date.
RSU Payment Date
 when an Option can be exercised, or a Participant is entitled to receive (i) Common Stock under a Restricted Stock Unit, (ii) Common Stock under a Performance Share, (iii) cash under a Performance Unit, or (iv) cash under a Book Value Unit, as appropriate, and "Vested" and "Vesting" will be construed accordingly.
Vest
DATA PROTECTION (Applicable to all countries other than the United States)
A Participant agrees by accepting an Award to permit Prudential to process personal data and sensitive personal data about the Participant in connection with the Plan. Such data includes, but is not limited to, the information provided in the Participant's grant documents and any changes thereto, other appropriate personal and financial data, and information about the Participant's participation in the Plan and shares granted under the Plan from time to time (collectively, ). A Participant consents to Prudential processing and transferring any Personal Data outside the country in which the Participant works or is employed to the United States and any other third countries. The legal persons for whom Personal Data is intended include Prudential and any of its subsidiaries, any plan administrator selected by Prudential from time to time, and any other person or entity that Prudential involves in the administration of the Plan. Prudential will take all reasonable measures to keep Personal Data, confidential and accurate. A Participant can access and correct their Personal Data by contacting their human resources representative. A Participant understands and agrees that the transfer of information is important to the administration of the Plan and failure to consent to the transmission of that information may limit their ability to participate in the Plan.
Personal Data
JAPAN
The following term will also apply:
If a Participant is an executive officer subject to the reporting requirements under Section 16(a) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (), or has otherwise been identified as a senior officer subject to the Share Ownership Guidelines as amended by the Board of Directors of Prudential from time to time (), then the Participant agrees to retain ownership of 50% of the net shares of Common Stock (after payment of the Grant Price, if any, and applicable fees and taxes) acquired on exercise of an Option or the vesting of an Award until the first anniversary of the acquisition of that Common Stock. For senior officers who are not Executive Officers; these guidelines will cease to apply once the Participant has satisfied the Guidelines or, if earlier, upon termination of the senior officer's employment. Once the Participant has satisfied this holding period, the Participant may dispense of any shares of Common Stock held in excess of the Guidelines, subject to the Personal Securities Trading Policy, including the "Reporting Responsibilities and Procedures for Section 16 Officers and Directors and Control Persons of Prudential" as then in effect.
Executive Officers
Guidelines
UNITED STATES
Stock Options  for executives subject to the reporting requirements under Section 16(a) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, section 2 of Part C will not apply to executives but the following will apply.
"An Option may be exercised by the Participant:
 
 
The following term will also apply:
If a Participant is an executive officer subject to the reporting requirements under Section 16(a) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (), or has otherwise been identified as a senior officer subject to the Share Ownership Guidelines as amended by the Board of Directors of Prudential from time to time (), then the Participant agrees to retain ownership of 50% of the net shares of Common Stock (after payment of the Grant Price, if any, and applicable fees and taxes) acquired on exercise of an Option or the vesting of an Award until the first anniversary of the acquisition of that Common Stock. For senior officers who are not Executive Officers, these guidelines will cease to apply once the Participant has satisfied the Guidelines or, if earlier, upon termination of the senior officer's employment. Once the Participant has satisfied this holding period, the Participant may dispense of any shares of Common Stock held in excess of the Guidelines, subject to the Personal Securities Trading Policy, including the "Reporting Responsibilities and Procedures for Section 16 Officers and Directors and Control Persons of Prudential" as then in effect.
Executive Officers
Guidelines
All Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares or Performance Units granted under the 2010 Mid-Term and 2010 Long-Term Program to a Participant who is a covered employee under Code Section 162(m) are subject to the additional requirement that the maximum aggregate amount payable to such a Participant in respect of such Awards may not exceed six-tenths of one percent (0.6%) of Adjusted Operating Income (as defined in the Plan) for the most recently reported year ending December 31st before the year payment is made in respect of such Awards. Notwithstanding any provision in these Terms and Conditions to the contrary, if a Participant is a "covered employee" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m), any pro-rated payment the Participant would otherwise be entitled to receive under and subject to the otherwise applicable conditions set forth herein in connection with (i) an Approved Retirement or (ii) an Involuntary Termination other than for Cause, Approved Retirement, death or Disability, will nonetheless be subject to the satisfaction of the condition set forth in the immediately preceding sentence, and in addition payment in respect of any Award on account of any Involuntary Termination described in subclause (ii) will not be made until after the close of the calendar year in which such Involuntary Termination of Employment occurs (but not later than March 15 of such subsequent calendar year).
If you wish to decline the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, the Options, the Performance Shares, the Performance Units, or the Book Value Units, as applicable, granted to you pursuant to the 2010 Long-Term Incentive Program and the 2010 Mid-Term Incentive Program under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan you should complete and return this form by facsimile on or before the date three weeks after the Grant Date to Stock Plan Administration c/o Carol Hesse at (973)-367-8251 or by certified mail with return receipt, postmarked on or before the date three weeks after the Grant Date to Stock Plan Administration c/o Carol Hesse, 751 Broad Street, 17th Floor, Newark, New Jersey 07102. Please note that once you decline the grant of an Award, that Award (including, but not limited to, any rights, payments, interests or benefits you have or may have under, related to or associated with, that Award) will be cancelled and terminated immediately.
I,                                          , hereby decline the grant of:
 
granted to me in                      2010 under the terms of the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan.
 

Exhibit 10.4
This document is intended to help you understand the main features of your special Restricted Stock Unit Award under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the ). You should refer to this document for this particular Restricted Stock Unit Award.
Plan
only
This document is not a substitute for the official Plan documents, which govern the operation of the Plan. All terms and conditions of the Plan, including your eligibility and any benefits, will be determined pursuant to, and are governed by, the provisions of the Plan documents. If there is any discrepancy between the information in this document or in any other materials relating to the Plan and the actual Plan documents, or if there is a conflict between information discussed by anyone acting on behalf of Prudential and the actual Plan documents, the Plan documents, as interpreted by the Compensation Committee as the Plan administrator in its sole discretion, will always govern.
Prudential may, in its sole discretion, modify, amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan or any and all of the policies, programs and plans described in this document in whole or in part, at any time, without notice to or consent of any Participant to the extent permissible under applicable law.
Nothing contained in this document, or in any other materials related to the Plan, is intended to constitute or create a contract of employment nor shall it constitute or create the right to remain associated with or in the employ of Prudential for any particular period of time. For US Participants only employment with Prudential is employment-at-will; this means that either you or Prudential may terminate the employment relationship or association at any time, with or without cause or notice.
 
This document contains the principal terms and conditions applicable only to these special Restricted Stock Units granted to employees under the Prudential Financial Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the ) in 2010.
Plan
PART A: General terms and conditions
 
The Restricted Stock Unit Award is made available to employees, subject to the terms of the Plan, and is designed to strengthen the links between leadership, motivation and consistent performance. Employees selected to receive an Award of Restricted Stock Units will be advised of the Award made to them in their own personalized compensation statement or a communication from their manager.
The grant of a Restrict Stock Unit Award is subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Plan document. This document describes the principal terms and conditions of the Award granted to employees under the Plan (the ). The Schedule to these Terms contains the definitions used in these Terms. If there is any discrepancy between these Terms and the Plan document, or if there is a discrepancy between any information given by anyone acting on behalf of any member of the Company Group and the Plan document, the Plan document, as interpreted by the Compensation Committee, will always govern.
Terms
 
Grants of any Awards under the Plan are entirely at the sole discretion of Prudential.
A grant of an Award under the Plan on one occasion does not give an employee the right to any further grant at any time in the future.
 
An employee granted an Award may accept the Award in any manner specified by the Compensation Committee (or the Company Group) and may be deemed to have accepted an Award if the employee has not declined the grant of that Award (in whole or in part) within any period of time specified by the Compensation Committee (or the Company Group) and notified to the employee.
By accepting an Award, a Participant will be responsible for complying with any Applicable Laws relating to:
 
 
The Applicable Laws may change and Participants should seek their own professional legal, financial and taxation advice in relation to their participation in the Plan.
 
Prudential or any member of the Company Group, as appropriate, has the right to deduct, report and account for any taxes or other obligations required to be withheld by law in connection with an Award. Prudential (or, as appropriate, any other member of the Company Group) may require a Participant to pay to Prudential (or, if appropriate, any other member of the Company Group) the amount necessary to satisfy any such taxes or other obligations and may defer delivery of shares of Common Stock under the Plan to a Participant until such withholding is satisfied. On the Vesting of Restricted Stock Units, Prudential or, if appropriate, any other member of the Company Group, will have the right to withhold, either through payroll, through the
withholding of sufficient shares of Common Stock or otherwise, in order to satisfy any applicable withholding requirements on the Vesting of Restricted Stock Units. Participants will be responsible for ensuring that their own tax affairs in connection with the Plan are in order.
 
Prudential makes no representation as to the future value of any Award under the Plan or whether any profit will be realized with respect to any Award. Past performance may not be a reliable guide to future performance. Investments may fall as well as rise in value. By accepting the grant of an Award, a Participant agrees that Prudential and the other members of the Company Group are not responsible for foreign exchange fluctuations between the Participant's local currency and the U.S. dollar and are not liable for any decrease in the value of shares of Common Stock. Changes in exchange rates may have an adverse effect on the value, price or income of the securities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Awards granted under the Plan and Prudential's obligation to deliver shares of Common Stock under these Terms will be subject in all respects to (a) all Applicable Laws, and (b) any registration, qualification, approvals or other requirements imposed by any government or regulatory agency or body which the Compensation Committee determines to be necessary or applicable. Shares of Common Stock may not be delivered to a Participant if their receipt would be contrary to any Applicable Laws or the rules of any applicable stock exchange.
 
If at the time of delivery of any shares of Common Stock under the Plan, the Common Stock is not registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), or there is no current prospectus in effect under the Securities Act with respect to the Common Stock, a Participant will, if requested by the Compensation Committee, execute, before the delivery of any shares of Common Stock, an agreement (in the form the Compensation Committee specifies) in which the Participant represents and warrants that the Participant is acquiring the shares for the Participant's own account, for investment only and not with a view to the resale or distribution of the shares, and agrees that any subsequent offer for sale or distribution of any kind of such shares will be made only pursuant to either (a) a registration statement on an appropriate form under the Securities Act, which registration statement has become effective and is current with regard to the shares being offered or sold; or (b) a specific exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, but in claiming that exemption, the Participant will, before any offer for sale of the shares, obtain a prior favorable written opinion, in form and substance satisfactory to the Compensation Committee, from counsel for or approved by the Compensation Committee, as to the applicability of the exemption.
Securities Act
 
A Participant acknowledges that Prudential is organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey and maintains its headquarters in Newark, New Jersey. The Participant further acknowledges that Prudential has an interest in ensuring the uniform interpretation and application of these Terms to all Participants. Accordingly, Prudential and the Participant agree that the Plan and these Terms will be governed by the laws of the State of New Jersey, without giving effect to its conflict of law provisions.
 
By accepting an Award under the Plan, a Participant agrees, to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Laws, in lieu of receiving documents in paper format to accept electronic delivery of any documents that any member of the Company Group may be required to deliver in connection with the Plan. Electronic delivery of a document may be via e-mail or by reference to a location on a member of the Company Group's intranet site or a designated third-party vendor's internet site.
 
A Participant does not have any rights as a shareholder in Prudential by virtue of the grant of an Award under the Plan, but only with respect to shares of Common Stock, if any, delivered to the Participant in accordance with the Plan and these Terms.
 
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, no acceleration of the time or schedule of any delivery of shares or other payment related to an Award will be permitted to the extent necessary to comply with Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued under Section 409A. The Compensation Committee may amend, modify, adjust or supplement any provision of the Plan without a Participant's
consent if the Compensation Committee determines that the amendment, modification, adjustment or supplementation is required or advisable for an Award or Prudential to comply with, or not violate, any Applicable Laws, regulation or rule, including, without limitation, Code Section 409A.
 
Participation in the Plan does not entitle an employee of the Company Group to any benefit other than that granted under the Plan. Any benefits granted under the Plan will not be deemed to be compensation under any pension plan or other retirement plan, welfare plan or any compensation plan or program maintained by any member of the Company Group, and will not be considered as part of compensation for the purposes of calculating pension, profit-sharing, bonuses, service awards, or in the event of severance, redundancy or resignation.
Prudential may modify, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or any and all of the policies, programs and terms of the Plan in whole or in part, at any time, without notice to or with the consent of Participants.
If shares of Common Stock are, or are to be, delivered in a manner not specifically authorized by the Plan, (i.e., in "Error"), Prudential will be entitled to correct the Error, including reversing the transaction and recouping any Common Stock or gain that might be delivered as a result of the Error.
The English language version of any documents provided in connection with the Plan will prevail in the case of any ambiguities or divergences as a result of the translation of the document into any other language.
Participation in the Plan is not intended to constitute or create a contract of employment nor does it constitute or create the right to remain associated with or in the employ of any member of the Company Group for any particular period of time. Participation in the Plan does not affect in any way a member of the Company Group's right to terminate an employee's Employment at any time, with or without cause, and does not form part of an employee's employment contract, if any.
 
The restricted period (the ) with respect to the Restricted Stock Units will begin on the Grant Date and lapse (, vest) annually as to one-third of the Restricted Stock Units on each of the first three anniversaries of the Grant Date (each successive anniversary of the Grant Date in the Restricted Period is deemed a ).
Restricted Period
i.e
Payment Date
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and subject to the Participant's continued Employment through the applicable Payment Date, as soon as administratively practicable after the date any Restricted Stock Units vest (but not later than the end of the calendar year in which the Restricted Stock Units vest), the Participant will receive a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Restricted Stock Units that have become vested, less any taxes or other deductions required by Applicable Law.
 
A Participant's outstanding Restricted Stock Units will automatically be forfeited and cancelled on the termination of the Participant's Employment and no shares of Common Stock may thereafter be issued with respect to the Restricted Stock Units, except in the specific circumstances set out in the table below:
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, to the extent necessary to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued under Section 409A with respect to any individual who is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Section 409A and the final regulations, on termination of the Participant's employment with any member of the Company Group, delivery of shares of Common Stock may not be made before the date that is six (6) months after the date of such termination of Employment (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death). In addition, to the extent necessary to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued under Code Section 409A, if an award of Restricted Stock Units is treated as deferred compensation subject to such Code Section 409A, no distribution will be made (although vesting will accelerate to the extent otherwise provided above) in respect of such award upon the occurrence of a Change of Control unless such event qualifies as a change in the ownership of a corporation, change in the effective control of a corporation or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation within the meaning of such Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued thereunder.
A Participant granted Restricted Stock Units will be eligible to receive Dividend Equivalents on the Restricted Stock Units based on any regular cash dividends declared on Common Stock from the Grant Date until the Payment Date (or until the date of forfeiture, if sooner). Any Dividend Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as administratively practicable (but not more than 74 days) after the related cash dividends are paid to Common Stock holders, unless determined otherwise by the Compensation Committee. Any Dividend Equivalents payable under the Plan will be treated as separate payments from the underlying Restricted Stock Units for purposes of Section 409A of the Code. There will be no reinvestment option or earned interest credits on any Dividend Equivalent.
For the purposes of the Terms, the following words and expressions have the meanings ascribed to them.
applicable laws, rules and regulations relating to any Awards made under the Plan or otherwise relating to the Plan;
Applicable Laws 
 termination of a Participant's Employment:
Approved Retirement
 
 
Approved Retirement does not apply to any Participant who has an Agent Emeritus contract with any of Prudential's insurance affiliates or to a Participant whose Employment is terminated for Cause, even if, in either case, the Participant is receiving retirement benefits or is otherwise eligible for retirement or has satisfied the conditions in (ii) above.
 the grant of Restricted Stock Unit.
Award
 the board of directors of Prudential.
Board
 includes but is not restricted to any of the following (as determined by the Compensation Committee): (i) dishonesty, fraud or misrepresentation; (ii) inability to obtain or retain appropriate licenses; (iii) violation of any rule or regulation of any regulatory agency or self-regulatory agency; (iv) violation of any policy or rule of Prudential or any subsidiary; (v) commission of a crime; (vi) breach by a Participant of any covenant or agreement with any member of the Company Group not to disclose or misuse any information pertaining to, or misuse any property of, any member of the Company Group, or (vii) any act or omission detrimental to the conduct of the business of any member of the Company Group.
Cause
 occurs, in general, when (i) any person or entity outside of Prudential acquires, directly or indirectly, twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the combined voting power of Prudential or of the combined assets of Prudential (and its subsidiaries); (ii) the composition of Prudential's Board of Directors changes over a 24-month period such that the Incumbent Directors no longer constitute a majority of the Board of Directors; (iii) a Corporate Event completes and immediately following completion the shareholders of Prudential immediately before the Corporate Event do not hold, directly or indirectly, a majority of the voting power of, in the case of (a) a merger or consolidation, the surviving or resulting corporation; (b) a share exchange, the acquiring corporation; or (c) a division or a sale or other disposition of assets, each surviving, resulting or acquiring corporation which, immediately following the relevant Corporate Event, holds more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the consolidated assets of Prudential immediately before the Corporate Event; or (iv) any other event that the Board declares to be a Change of Control.
Change of Control
No change of control occurs on an underwritten offering of the equity securities of Prudential when no person or entity acquires more than twenty-five percent (25%) ownership in such securities. The Plan document details how a Change of Control will be determined in various types of acquisitions and corporate reorganization events (including sales of assets), and the document's terms govern any determination that a Change of Control has occurred.
 the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 a share of Common Stock in Prudential.
Common Stock
 Prudential and/or its subsidiaries.
Company Group
 the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Prudential, which administers the Plan.
Compensation Committee
 a merger, consolidation, recapitalisation or reorganisation, share exchange, division, sale, plan of complete liquidation or dissolution, or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Prudential which has been approved by the shareholders of Prudential.
Corporate Event
 means, with respect to any Participant, long-term disability as defined under the welfare benefit plan maintained by the member of the Company Group in which the Participant participates and from which the Participant is receiving a long-term disability benefit. In jurisdictions outside the United States where long-term disability is covered by a mandatory or universal program sponsored by the government or an industrial association, receipt of long-term disability benefit from such a program is considered to have met the disability definition of the Plan.
Disability
 an amount paid in lieu of dividends declared on Common Stock during a period that an applicable Award is outstanding.
Dividend Equivalent
 means employment with any member of the Company Group.
Employment
 with respect to an Award, the date on which it is granted under the Plan.
Grant Date
 with respect to any period of time specified under the Plan for the purposes of determining a Change of Control, the persons who were members of the Board at the beginning of the period, including any director elected to the Board or nominated for election to the Board by a majority of the Incumbent Directors.
Incumbent Directors
 means, on any date, the price at which shares of Common Stock were last traded on that date on the New York Stock Exchange or, if there are no transactions on that date, the closing price on the immediately preceding date on which there was a transaction. For the purposes of determining the taxable income from Restricted Stock Units, it should be noted that in some countries there are specific rules that set out how Market Value is determined. Where applicable, any particular rules should be noted in the country specific Q&A's.
Market Value
 any employee of a member of the Company Group who holds an outstanding Award granted under the Plan.
Participant
 the dates on which the continuing service requirement applicable to one-third of the Restricted Stock Units are scheduled to lapse, as specified by the Compensation Committee at the Grant Date, which occur on the first three anniversaries of the Grant Date.
Payment Date
 the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan, a stock-based compensation plan adopted by the Board of Directors and ratified by the shareholders of Prudential in June 2003.
Plan
 Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, and any successor to Prudential Financial, Inc.
Prudential
 a Separation Agreement and General Release (in connection with an involuntary termination of employment for any reason other than Cause) or a General Release of Claims (in connection with a voluntary
Release
termination of employment), whichever is appropriate, in a form and with terms and conditions (including but not limited to, non-solicitation of employees and business of any member of the Company Group) satisfactory to Prudential.
 a conditional right (which is subject to forfeiture and transfer restrictions) granted under the Plan to receive one share of Common Stock at the end of a period of time specified by the Compensation Committee at the Grant Date.
Restricted Stock Unit
 when a Participant is entitled to receive one share under a Restricted Stock Unit, as appropriate, and "Vested" and "Vesting" will be construed accordingly.
Vest
UNITED STATES
The following term will also apply:
If a Participant is an executive officer subject to the reporting requirements under Section 16(a) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (), or has otherwise been identified as a senior officer subject to the Share Ownership Guidelines as amended by the Board of Directors of Prudential from time to time (), then the Participant agrees to retain ownership of 50% of the net shares of Common Stock (after payment of the Grant Price, if any, and applicable fees and taxes) acquired on exercise of an Option or the vesting of an Award until the first anniversary of the acquisition of that Common Stock. For senior officers who are not Executive Officers; these guidelines will cease to apply once the Participant has satisfied the Guidelines or, if earlier, upon termination of the senior officer's employment. Once the Participant has satisfied this holding period, the Participant may dispense of any shares of Common Stock held in excess of the Guidelines, subject to the Personal Securities Trading Policy, including the "Reporting Responsibilities and Procedures for Section 16 Officers and Directors and Control Persons of Prudential" as then in effect.
Executive Officers
Guidelines
All Restricted Stock Units granted to a Participant who is a covered employee under Code Section 162(m) are subject to the additional requirement that the maximum aggregate amount payable to such a Participant in respect of such Award may not exceed six-tenths of one percent (0.6%) of Adjusted Operating Income (as defined in the Plan) for the most recently reported year ending December 31st before the year payment is made in respect of such Award. Notwithstanding any provision in these Terms and Conditions to the contrary, if a Participant is a "covered employee" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m), any pro-rated payment the Participant would otherwise be entitled to receive under and subject to the otherwise applicable conditions set forth herein in connection with (i) an Approved Retirement or (ii) an Involuntary Termination other than for Cause, Approved Retirement, death or Disability, will nonetheless be subject to the satisfaction of the condition set forth in the immediately preceding sentence, and in addition payment in respect of any Award on account of any Involuntary Termination described in subclause (ii) will not be made until after the close of the calendar year in which such Involuntary Termination of Employment occurs (but not later than March 15 of such subsequent calendar year).
If you wish to decline the Restricted Stock Units granted to you under the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan you should complete and return this form by facsimile on or before the date three weeks after the Grant Date to Stock Plan Administration c/o Carol Hesse at (973)-367-8251 or by certified mail with return receipt, postmarked on or before the date three weeks after the Grant Date to Stock Plan Administration c/o Carol Hesse, 751 Broad Street, 17th Floor, Newark, New Jersey 07102. Please note that once you decline the grant of an Award, that Award (including, but not limited to, any rights, payments, interests or benefits you have or may have under, related to or associated with, that Award) will be cancelled and terminated immediately.
I,                                          , hereby decline the grant of:
 
granted to me in 2010 under the terms of the Prudential Financial, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan.
 


