FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20110511160901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Prudential Financial, Inc. (the "Company") was held on May 10, 2011. Shareholders voted as follows on the matters presented for a vote.
1. The nominees for election to the Board of Directors were elected, each for a one-year term, based upon the following votes:
 
2. The proposal to ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2011 was approved based upon the following votes:
 
There were no broker non-votes for this item.
 
3. The proposal to approve, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the Company's named executive officers was approved based upon the following votes:
 
4. The shareholders voted, on an advisory basis, to hold future advisory votes to approve the compensation of the Company's named executive officers as follows:
 
In connection with the Annual Meeting, the Board of Directors of the Company had recommended that shareholders vote to hold future advisory votes to approve the compensation of the Company's named executive officers on an annual basis. In light of such recommendation and considering the strong support for an annual vote as reflected in the above voting results, the Board, on May 10, 2011, determined that the Company will hold future advisory votes to approve the compensation of the Company's named executive officers annually.
5. The shareholder proposal regarding supermajority voting was approved based upon the following votes:
 
There were no broker non-votes for this item.
6. The shareholder proposal regarding lobbying contributions and expenditures was defeated based upon the following votes:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 11, 2011
 


