FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20110607165925.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 7, 2011, Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), issued a news release announcing that the Company is instituting a share repurchase program and has authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock through June 30, 2012 under the program. The news release is attached as Exhibit 99.0.
The timing and amount of any share repurchases under the share repurchase authorization will be determined by management based on market conditions and other considerations, and such repurchases may be effected in the open market, through derivative, accelerated repurchase and other negotiated transactions and through plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 7, 2011
 
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU) today announced that it is instituting a share repurchase program and has authorized the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of its outstanding Common Stock through June 30, 2012 under the program.
NEWARK, N.J. 
Management will determine the timing and amount of any share repurchases under the share repurchase authorization based on market conditions and other considerations. The repurchases may be effected in the open market, through derivative, accelerated repurchase and other negotiated transactions and through plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $859 billion of assets under management as of March 31, 2011, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Prudential's diverse and talented employees are committed to helping individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth through a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. In the U.S., Prudential's iconic Rock symbol has stood for strength, stability, expertise and innovation for more than a century. For more information, please visit .
http://www.news.prudential.com/
 


