FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20110701082144.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On July 1, 2011, Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), issued a news release announcing that the Company has completed the sale of its global commodities business to Jefferies Group, Inc. A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.0.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99.0 News release, dated July 1, 2011, of Prudential Financial, Inc. announcing the completion of the sale of its global commodities business to Jefferies Group, Inc.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 1, 2011
 
 

Exhibit 99.0
 
 Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today announced the completion of the sale of its global commodities business to Jefferies Group, Inc. for $419.5 million. The purchase price, subject to certain true-up adjustments, is approximately equal to book value as of the date of closing.
NEWARK, N.J.
Prudential Financial, Inc. announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell its global commodities business to Jefferies Group on April 7, 2011.
The sale included the U.S.-based FCM, Prudential Bache Commodities, LLC; the broker dealer, Prudential Bache Securities, LLC; U.K.-based Bache Commodities Limited; and Hong Kong-based Bache Commodities (Hong Kong) Ltd.
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU), a financial services leader, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Prudential's diverse and talented employees are committed to helping individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth through a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds, investment management, and real estate services. In the U.S., Prudential's iconic Rock symbol has stood for strength, stability, expertise and innovation for more than a century. For more information, please visit .
http://www.news.prudential.com/


