FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20120426163832.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.1, supplementary financial information for its Financial Services Businesses reflecting the retrospective adoption of revised U.S. GAAP accounting standards related to deferred policy acquisition costs.
See also the response to Item 7.01 below, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2012 and applied the retrospective method of adoption. The impact from retrospective adoption of this guidance on Prudential Financial, Inc.'s consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011 was a reduction in deferred policy acquisition costs of $4.1 billion for the Financial Services Businesses and $0.2 billion for the Closed Block Business, an increase in policy reserves for certain limited pay contracts of $0.2 billion for the Financial Services Businesses, and a reduction in total equity of $2.8 billion for the Financial Services Businesses and $0.2 billion for the Closed Block Business. The impact from retrospective adoption of this guidance on pre-tax adjusted operating income
(1)
 for the Financial Services Businesses and consolidated net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are presented in the table below.
Adjusted operating income differs from net income and income from continuing operations determined in accordance with GAAP but is the financial measure that the Company uses to analyze the operations of each segment in managing its Financial Services Businesses. See note (1) to the schedule below.
The following schedule shows the effect on adjusted operating income before income taxes for the periods indicated for the matters described above:
 
 
The following schedule shows the impact of the retrospective application of amended guidance for deferred policy acquisition costs on the reconciliation of adjusted operating income to net income of Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.:
 
 
Shown below are the contributions of each segment and Corporate and Other operations to adjusted operating income as currently reported for the periods indicated, which reflects the retrospective adoption of the amended guidance, and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income as currently reported, of our segments and Corporate and Other operations to net income of Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc.:
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 Supplementary Financial Information - Retrospective Adoption of Revised U.S. GAAP Accounting Standards for Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Effective January 1, 2012.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 26, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
April 26, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
The financial data herein reflects, for all periods presented, the adoption of the accounting guidance that addresses diversity in practice regarding the interpretation of which costs relating to the acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts qualify for deferral. Under the amended guidance, acquisition costs are to include only those costs that are directly related to the acquisition or renewal of insurance contracts by applying a model similar to the accounting for loan origination costs. An entity may defer incremental direct costs of contract acquisition with independent third parties or employees that are essential to the contract transaction, as well as the portion of employee compensation, including payroll fringe benefits, and other costs directly related to underwriting, policy issuance and processing, medical inspection, and contract selling for successfully negotiated contracts. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2012 and applied the retrospective method of adoption.
The financial data herein also reflects, for all periods presented, a revision to the Company's method for calculating operating return on average equity. The revised method utilizes average attributed equity excluding total accumulated other comprehensive income as the denominator. The previous method utilized average attributed equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits. The definition of the numerator in the calculation, adjusted operating income after-tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation) annualized for interim periods, remains the same.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
KEY DEFINITIONS AND FORMULAS
1. Adjusted operating income before income taxes:
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses that excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net", as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities; change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; results of divested businesses and discontinued operations; earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests; and the related tax effects thereof. Adjusted operating income includes equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and the related tax effects thereof. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and are adjusted for the items above as well.
Realized investment gains (losses) within certain of our businesses for which such gains (losses) are a principal source of earnings, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains and losses from products that contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of a hedging program related to the risk of those products. Adjusted operating income also excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged or considered part of our capital funding strategies for our international subsidiaries, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
2. After-tax adjusted operating income:
Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes.
3. Attributed Equity:
Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business or attributable to noncontrolling interests.
4. Book value per share of Common Stock:
Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by the number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis.
5. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock:
Net income (loss) for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments modify earnings available to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. Earnings per share of Common Stock based on adjusted operating income (loss) of the Financial Services Businesses reflects these adjustments as well.
6. Insurance and Annuity Benefits:
Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, and losses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.
7. Operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income):
Adjusted operating income after-tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income. For 2009 periods and prior, the average equity is based on a two point average. For all other periods, the average equity is based on a five point average.
An alternative measure to operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income) is return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations). Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) represents income from continuing operations after-tax , for the Financial Services Businesses, attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. as determined in accordance with GAAP (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average total attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses. For 2009 periods and prior, the average equity is based on a two point average. For all other periods, the average equity is based on a five point average. Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) is 6.1% for the three months ended December 31, 2011, 19.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2011, 10.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2011, 7.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, 1.5% for the three months ended December 31, 2010, 15.7% for the three months ended September 30, 2010, 13.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2010, 8.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2010, 19.3% for the year ended Decmber 31, 2009 and (8.3)% for the year ended December 31, 2008.
 


