FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20120313164727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Attached as Exhibit 10.1 are Annual Incentive Payment Criteria for Executive Officers relating to annual incentive awards, commencing with those to be made in 2013 in respect of 2012 performance.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 13, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Annual Incentives for executive officers, including the CEO, are paid through the Company Annual Incentive Pool, which is based on an assessment of performance relative to key financial and strategic objectives. Each senior executive has an annual incentive target. A performance factor is applied to the sum of these targets to generate their funding contributions to the Company's 2012 annual incentive pool.
The performance metric for the annual incentive program is earnings per share, or EPS, on an adjusted operating income (AOI) basis for the Financial Services Businesses. EPS performance is measured relative to the Company's EPS targets. The reported EPS data is adjusted for certain one-time items to more accurately reflect the operating performance of the Company's businesses and to take into account financial market performance relative to the assumptions used in establishing the EPS targets. The following one-time items are excluded from the reported EPS data:
 
An initial performance factor is determined based on EPS performance relative to the Company's EPS targets.
The Committee may exercise negative discretion to reduce the performance factor based on such considerations as:
 
Finally, the Committee may consider additional quantitative and qualitative considerations to determine the final performance factor, including:
 
 
Allocation of the annual incentive pool among executives is discretionary with consideration given to the final performance factor, performance of the business(es) managed by the executive, individual performance and contributions and value of the position in the marketplace.
If an executive retires or in certain other cases of termination of employment, the Committee may award an annual incentive payment to the executive for contributions during the year in which the executive's employment ended.
"Adjusted operating income", or "AOI", referred to above, differs from, and should not be viewed as a substitute for, income from continuing operations or net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but is the financial measure that the Company uses to analyze the operations of each segment in managing its Financial Services Businesses. EPS referred to above is determined on the basis of after-tax adjusted operating income.
 


