FILE:PRU/PRU-8K-20120208163830.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prudential Financial, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the "Company"), furnishes herewith, as Exhibit 99.0, a news release announcing fourth quarter 2011 results.
See also the response to Item 7.01 below, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 8, 2012
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2.
 
 
 
Significant items included in current quarter adjusted operating income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3.
 
 Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today reported net income of its Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $3.531 billion ($7.22 per Common share) for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $2.714 billion ($5.75 per Common share) for 2010. After-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses was $3.134 billion ($6.41 per Common share) for 2011, compared to $2.916 billion ($6.17 per Common share) for 2010. Information regarding adjusted operating income, a non-GAAP measure, is provided below.
NEWARK, N.J.
For the fourth quarter of 2011, net income for the Financial Services Businesses attributed to Prudential Financial, Inc. amounted to $606 million ($1.26 per Common share) compared to $213 million (45 cents per Common share) for the fourth quarter of 2010. After-tax adjusted operating income for the fourth quarter of 2011 for the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $948 million ($1.97 per Common share) compared to $848 million ($1.76 per Common share) for the fourth quarter of 2010.
The Company acquired AIG Star Life Insurance Co., Ltd. and AIG Edison Life Insurance Company on February 1, 2011. Results of the Financial Services Businesses include the results of these businesses from the date of acquisition. Giving effect to the impact of acquisition financing reflecting debt securities and Common shares issued in late 2010 and results of operations, the acquisition resulted in adjusted operating income of approximately 10 cents per Common share for the Financial Services Businesses in the fourth quarter of 2011, before absorption of integration costs during the quarter which amounted to approximately 13 cents per share. Since Gibraltar Life, inclusive of the acquired businesses, is included in the Company's reported results of operations on a one month lag basis, results of the Financial Services Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2011 include the results for the initial ten months of operations of Star and Edison from the date of acquisition.
As a result of the Company's sale of its real estate brokerage franchise and relocation services business in December 2011, the results of this business have been classified as divested businesses and excluded from adjusted operating income for all periods presented.
"Our results for the fourth quarter and year were strong and reflect the business momentum we continue to build. Sustained commitment to our selected markets and our financial strength are
 
 
Page 4.
 
driving our enhanced competitive position. We focus on maintaining a mix of businesses that have solid financial prospects in a variety of market conditions. During the year, addition of the Star and Edison businesses in Japan and divestiture of several non-core operations have made us a stronger, more focused company. The merger of Star and Edison into Gibraltar Life was successfully completed on January 1, 2012, and the integration of these companies continues on track. We also surpassed significant milestones over the last year, including assets under management over $900 billion and annualized new business premiums over $3 billion in International Insurance. Our solid results through challenging markets enhance our confidence that we will achieve our longer-term objectives," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld.
Adjusted operating income is not calculated under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Information regarding adjusted operating income, a non-GAAP measure, is discussed later in this press release under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures," and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the most comparable GAAP measure is provided in the tables that accompany this release.
Financial Services Businesses
Prudential Financial's Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of its Financial Services Businesses, which consist of its U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance, and International Insurance divisions and its Corporate and Other operations.
In the following business-level discussion, adjusted operating income refers to pre-tax results.
The reported adjusted operating income of $688 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, compared to $624 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division
The Individual Annuities segment reported adjusted operating income of $391 million in the current quarter, compared to $345 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited $121 million from net reductions in reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits,
 
 
Page 5.
 
and $59 million from a net reduction in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, reflecting an updated estimate of profitability for this business. Results for the year-ago quarter included a net benefit of $146 million from adjustment of these items to reflect an update of estimated profitability. These benefits to results for both the current quarter and the year-ago quarter were largely driven by increases in market value of customer accounts during the respective periods. Excluding the effect of the foregoing items, adjusted operating income for the Individual Annuities segment increased $12 million from the year-ago quarter. This increase reflected higher asset-based fees due to growth in variable annuity account values, net of an increased level of related amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs in the current quarter. The net benefit from higher asset-based fees was partly offset by higher expenses and financing costs in the current quarter.
The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $142 million for the current quarter, compared to $147 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease reflected a lower contribution from investment results, which was partly offset by higher fees associated with growth in account values and lower expenses in the current quarter.
The Asset Management segment reported adjusted operating income of $155 million for the current quarter, compared to $132 million in the year-ago quarter. The increase came primarily from higher asset management fees reflecting growth in assets under management, net of expenses. Current quarter results also benefited from higher performance-based fees.
The reported adjusted operating income of $201 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, compared to $200 million in the year-ago quarter.
U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division
The Individual Life segment reported adjusted operating income of $146 million for the current quarter, compared to $131 million in the year-ago quarter. The increase came primarily from adjustments of net amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other items based on separate account performance in relation to our assumptions, which had a favorable impact of approximately $20 million on current quarter results and about $10 million on results for the year-ago quarter. In addition, current quarter results benefited from a greater contribution from underwriting results, which reflected growth of universal life and term insurance business in force.
 
 
Page 6.
 
The Group Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $55 million in the current quarter, compared to $69 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease reflected a higher level of expenses in the current quarter, a lower contribution from investment results, and less favorable group disability claims experience than that of the year-ago quarter. These items were partly offset by a greater contribution from group life underwriting results in the current quarter, reflecting growth of business in force and more favorable claims experience.
The reported adjusted operating income of $692 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, compared to $588 million in the year-ago quarter.
International Insurance segment
Adjusted operating income of the segment's Life Planner insurance operations was $336 million for the current quarter, compared to $328 million in the year-ago quarter. The $8 million increase in adjusted operating income reflected continued business growth, which was partially offset by less favorable mortality experience in the current quarter.
The segment's Gibraltar Life and Other operations reported adjusted operating income of $356 million for the current quarter, compared to $260 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include a benefit of $96 million from the sale of the Company's stake in Afore XXI, a private pension fund manager in Mexico. In addition, results for the current quarter reflect absorption of $94 million of integration costs related to the Star and Edison businesses acquired on February 1, 2011. Results for the year-ago quarter include a benefit of $66 million from the partial sale of an investment, through a consortium, in China Pacific Group. Excluding these items, adjusted operating income increased $160 million from the year-ago quarter, including an estimated contribution of $128 million from operations of the Star and Edison businesses. The remainder of the increase came primarily from business growth reflecting expanding sales of protection life insurance products.
Foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of the Company's currency hedging programs, had a favorable impact of $11 million on segment results in comparison to the year-ago quarter, including $9 million within Gibraltar Life and Other operations.
resulted in a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $281 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, compared to a loss of $239 million in the year-ago quarter. The increased loss was primarily driven by interest expense, net of investment income, reflecting a greater level of capital debt in the current quarter, and by higher expenses.
Corporate and Other operations
 
 
 
Page 7.
 
amounted to $901 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $784 billion a year earlier.
Assets under management
of the Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. amounted to $606 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, compared to $213 million in the year-ago quarter.
Net income
Current quarter net income includes $568 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments. Net realized investment losses for the current quarter include net losses of $367 million from products that contain embedded derivatives and associated derivative portfolios that are part of a hedging program related to the risks of these products as well as mark-to-market of derivatives under a capital hedge program. Net realized investment losses also include losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired investments amounting to $142 million, and net changes in value relating to foreign currency exchange rates and changes in market value of derivatives primarily related to the Company's investment duration management programs amounting to $95 million. These losses were partially offset by net gains from general portfolio activities.
At December 31, 2011, gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $4.256 billion, including $2.999 billion on high and highest quality securities based on NAIC or equivalent ratings. Gross unrealized losses include $906 million related to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses at December 31, 2011 include $2.642 billion of declines in value of 20% or more of amortized cost. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $3.100 billion at December 31, 2010. Net unrealized gains on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $10.493 billion at December 31, 2011, compared to $5.726 billion at December 31, 2010.
 
 
Page 8.
 
Net income for the current quarter also reflects pre-tax increases of $53 million in recorded asset values and $47 million in recorded liabilities representing changes in value which are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. These changes primarily represent interest rate related mark-to-market adjustments. Net income for the current quarter also includes $39 million of pre-tax income from divested businesses, which reflects a gain of $49 million from the sale of the Company's real estate brokerage franchise and relocation services business in December 2011.
Net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the year-ago quarter included $906 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments, decreases of $218 million in recorded assets and $200 million in recorded liabilities for which changes in value are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders, and pre-tax losses of $8 million from divested businesses, in each case before income taxes.
Closed Block Business
Prudential's Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of its Closed Block Business.
The Closed Block Business includes our in-force participating life insurance and annuity policies, and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies.
The Closed Block Business reported income from continuing operations before income taxes of $119 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, compared to a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $52 million for the year-ago quarter.
The Closed Block Business reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $80 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 and a net loss of $36 million for the year-ago quarter.
For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Closed Block Business reported income from continuing operations before income taxes of $197 million, compared to $725 million for 2010. The Closed Block Business reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $135 million for 2011, compared to $481 million for 2010.
 
 
Page 9.
 
Consolidated Results
There is no legal separation of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock are both common stockholders of Prudential Financial, Inc.
On a consolidated basis, which includes the results of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, Prudential Financial, Inc. reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $686 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $177 million for the year-ago quarter, and reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $3.666 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $3.195 billion for 2010.
Share Repurchases
During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company acquired 4.9 million shares of its Common Stock at a total cost of $250 million, for an average price of $50.40 per share. From the commencement of repurchases in July 2011, through December 31, 2011, the Company acquired 19.8 million shares of its Common Stock at a total cost of approximately $1.0 billion, for an average price of $50.53 per share. These repurchases were under an authorization by Prudential's Board of Directors in June 2011 to repurchase at management's discretion up to $1.5 billion of the Company's outstanding Common Stock through June 2012.
Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures
Certain of the statements included in this release constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U. S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "includes," "plans," "assumes," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "should," "will," "shall," or variations of such words are generally part of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance and involve risks and
 
 
Page 10.
 
uncertainties, and there are certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ, possibly materially, from expectations or estimates reflected in such forward-looking statements, including, among others: (1) general economic, market and political conditions, including the performance and fluctuations of fixed income, equity, real estate and other financial markets; (2) the availability and cost of additional debt or equity capital or external financing for our operations; (3) interest rate fluctuations or prolonged periods of low interest rates; (4) the degree to which we choose not to hedge risks, or the potential ineffectiveness or insufficiency of hedging or risk management strategies we do implement, with regard to variable annuity or other product guarantees; (5) any inability to access our credit facilities; (6) reestimates of our reserves for future policy benefits and claims; (7) differences between actual experience regarding mortality, morbidity, persistency, surrender experience, interest rates or market returns and the assumptions we use in pricing our products, establishing liabilities and reserves or for other purposes; (8) changes in our assumptions related to deferred policy acquisition costs, value of business acquired or goodwill; (9) changes in assumptions for retirement expense; (10) changes in our financial strength or credit ratings; (11) statutory reserve requirements associated with term and universal life insurance policies under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX; (12) investment losses, defaults and counterparty non-performance; (13) competition in our product lines and for personnel; (14) difficulties in marketing and distributing products through current or future distribution channels; (15) changes in tax law; (16) economic, political, currency and other risks relating to our international operations; (17) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets; (18) regulatory or legislative changes, including the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; (19) inability to protect our intellectual property rights or claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others; (20) adverse determinations in litigation or regulatory matters and our exposure to contingent liabilities, including in connection with our divestiture or winding down of businesses; (21) domestic or international military actions, natural or man-made disasters including terrorist activities or pandemic disease, or other events resulting in catastrophic loss of life; (22) ineffectiveness of risk management policies and procedures in identifying, monitoring and
 
 
Page 11.
 
managing risks; (23) effects of acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings, including possible difficulties in integrating and realizing the projected results of acquisitions, including risks associated with the acquisition of certain insurance operations in Japan; (24) interruption in telecommunication, information technology or other operational systems or failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data on such systems; (25) changes in statutory or U.S. GAAP accounting principles, practices or policies; (26) Prudential Financial, Inc.'s primary reliance, as a holding company, on dividends or distributions from its subsidiaries to meet debt payment obligations and the ability of the subsidiaries to pay such dividends or distributions in light of our ratings objectives and/or applicable regulatory restrictions; and (27) risks due to the lack of legal separation between our Financial Services Businesses and our Closed Block Business. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and is under no obligation, to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document.
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net," as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments. A significant element of realized investment gains and losses are impairments and credit-related and interest rate-related gains and losses. Impairments and losses from sales of credit-impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles, can vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses, such as interest rate-related gains or losses, is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities as well as our tax and capital profile.
Realized investment gains (losses) within certain of our businesses for which such gains (losses) are a principal source of earnings, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains and losses from products that contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of a hedging program related to the risk of those products. Adjusted operating income also excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange
 
 
Page 12.
 
movements that have been economically hedged or considered part of our capital funding strategies for our international subsidiaries, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets.
Adjusted operating income also excludes investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes, because these recorded changes in asset and liability values are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. In addition, adjusted operating income excludes the results of divested businesses, which are not relevant to our ongoing operations. Discontinued operations, which is presented as a separate component of net income under GAAP, is also excluded from adjusted operating income.
We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of the results of operations of the Financial Services Businesses by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. However, adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and the adjustments made to derive adjusted operating income are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. The schedules accompanying this release provide a reconciliation of adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses to income from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP.
The information referred to above, as well as the risks of our businesses described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, should be considered by readers when reviewing forward-looking statements contained in this release. Additional historical information relating to our financial performance is located on our Web site at
www.investor.prudential.com.
 
 
Page 13.
 
Earnings Conference Call
Members of Prudential's senior management will host a conference call on Thursday, February 9, 2012 at 11 a.m. ET, to discuss with the investment community the Company's fourth quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Company's Investor Relations Web site at . Please log on fifteen minutes early in the event necessary software needs to be downloaded. The call will remain on the Investor Relations Web site for replay through February 24. Institutional investors, analysts, and other members of the professional financial community are invited to listen to the call and participate in Q&A by dialing (877) 777-1971 (domestic callers) or (612) 332-0226 (international callers). All others are encouraged to dial into the conference call in listen-only mode, using the same numbers. To listen to a replay of the conference call starting at 2:00 p.m. on February 9, through February 16, dial (800) 475-6701 (domestic callers) or (320) 365-3844 (international callers). The access code for the replay is 225933.
www.investor.prudential.com
Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU), a financial services leader with approximately $901 billion of assets under management as of December 31, 2011, has operations in the United States, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Prudential's diverse and talented employees are committed to helping individual and institutional customers grow and protect their wealth through a variety of products and services, including life insurance, annuities, retirement-related services, mutual funds and investment management. In the U.S., Prudential's iconic Rock symbol has stood for strength, stability, expertise and innovation for more than a century. For more information, please visit
www.news.prudential.com.
 
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Financial Highlights
(in millions, except per share data or as otherwise noted, unaudited)
 
See footnotes on last page.
 
Realized investment gains (losses) within certain of our businesses for which such gains (losses) are a principal source of earnings, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains and losses from products that contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of a hedging program related to the risk of those products. Adjusted operating income also excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged or considered part of our capital funding strategies for our international subsidiaries, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Reference is made to Prudential Financial, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for general information, and consolidated financial information, regarding Prudential Financial, Inc., including its Closed Block Business. All financial information in this document is unaudited.
FEBRUARY 8, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
This quarterly financial supplement reflects, for all periods presented, the classification of the results for the Company's real estate brokerage franchise and relocation services business as a "divested business" and excluded from adjusted operation income as a result of the sale of this business.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the three months ended December 31, 2010, the hypothetical impact of these shares was antidilutive and therefore excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation for GAAP measures. The weighted average number of outstanding common shares used in the diluted earnings per share calculation for the three months ended December 31, 2010 for GAAP measures is 478.4 million.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefits and expenses exclude charges related to realized investment gains, net of losses and change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes and include charges for income attributable to non controlling interests.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed Maturities by Credit Quality (3):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Adjusted operating income before income taxes:
Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses that excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net", as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments; net investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities; change in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes; results of divested businesses and discontinued operations; earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests; and the related tax effects thereof. Adjusted operating income includes equity in earnings of operating joint ventures and the related tax effects thereof. Revenues and benefits and expenses shown as components of adjusted operating income, are presented on the same basis as pre-tax adjusted operating income and are adjusted for the items above as well.
Realized investment gains (losses) within certain of our businesses for which such gains (losses) are a principal source of earnings, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes realized investment gains and losses from products that contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of a hedging program related to the risk of those products. Adjusted operating income also excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities relating to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged or considered part of our capital funding strategies for our international subsidiaries, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets.
Adjusted operating income does not equate to "Income from continuing operations" as determined in accordance with GAAP but is the measure of profit or loss we use to evaluate segment performance. Adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of adjusted operating income may differ from that used by other companies. The items above are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, we believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability factors of our businesses.
2. After-tax adjusted operating income:
Adjusted operating income before taxes, as defined above, less the income tax effect applicable to adjusted operating income before taxes.
3. Annualized New Business Premiums:
Premiums from new sales that are expected to be collected over a one year period. Group insurance annualized new business premiums exclude new premiums resulting from rate changes on existing policies, from additional coverage issued under our Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance contract, and from excess premiums on group universal life insurance that build cash value but do not purchase face amounts. Group insurance annualized new business premiums include premiums from the takeover of claim liabilities. Group disability amounts include long-term care products and dental products. Excess (unscheduled) and single premium business for the company's domestic individual life and international insurance operations are included in annualized new business premiums based on a 10% credit.
4. Assets Under Management:
Fair market value or account value of assets which Prudential manages directly in proprietary products, such as mutual funds and variable annuities, in separate accounts, wrap-fee products and the general account, and assets invested in investment options included in the Company's products that are managed by third party sub-managers (i.e., the non-proprietary investment options in the Company's products).
5. Attributed Equity:
Amount of capital assigned to each of the Company's segments for purposes of measuring segment adjusted operating income before income taxes, established at a level which management considers necessary to support the segment's risks. Attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses represents all of the Company's equity that is not included in the Closed Block Business or attributable to noncontrolling interests.
6. Book value per share of Common Stock:
Equity attributed to Financial Services Businesses divided by the number of Common shares outstanding at end of period, on a diluted basis.
7. Borrowings - Capital Debt:
Borrowings that are or will be used for capital requirements at Prudential Financial, Inc as well as borrowings invested in equity or debt securities of direct or indirect subsidiaries of Prudential Financial, Inc., and subsidiary borrowings, utilized for capital requirements.
8. Borrowings - Investment Related:
Debt issued to finance specific investment assets or portfolios of investment assets, including institutional spread lending investment portfolios, real estate, and real estate related investments held in consolidated joint ventures, as well as institutional and insurance company portfolio cash flow timing differences.
9. Borrowings - Securities Business Related:
Debt issued to finance primarily the liquidity of our broker-dealers, and our capital markets and other securities business related operations including our discontinued commercial mortgage conduit related activities.
10. Borrowings - Specified Other Businesses:
Borrowings associated with consumer banking activities, the individual annuity business, real estate franchises, and relocation services.
 
 
11. Client Assets:
Fair market value of assets in client accounts of International brokerage operations, Prudential Bank and mortgage loan servicing business, that are not included in Assets Under Management. Prudential does not receive a management or administrative fee on these assets, but may receive a fee for executing trades, custody or recordkeeping services.
12. Earned Premiums:
The portion of a premium, net of any amount ceded, that represents coverage already provided or that belongs to the insurer based on the part of the policy period that has passed.
13. Earnings Per Share of Common Stock:
Net income (loss) for the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business is determined in accordance with GAAP and includes general and administrative expenses charged to each of the businesses based on the Company's methodology for the allocation of such expenses. Cash flows between the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business related to administrative expenses are determined by a policy servicing fee arrangement that is based upon insurance and policies in force and statutory cash premiums. To the extent reported administrative expenses vary from these cash flow amounts, the differences are recorded, on an after-tax basis, as direct equity adjustments to the equity balances of each business. The direct equity adjustments modify earnings available to holders of Common Stock and Class B Stock for earnings per share purposes. Earnings per share of Common Stock based on adjusted operating income (loss) of the Financial Services Businesses reflects these adjustments as well.
14. Full Service:
The Full Service line of business provides retirement plan products and services to public, private and not-for-profit organizations. This business provides recordkeeping, plan administration, actuarial advisory services, participant education and communication services, trustee services and institutional and retail investment funds. This business mainly services defined contribution and defined benefit plans; non-qualified plans are also serviced. For clients with both defined contribution and defined benefit plans, integrated recordkeeping services are available. For participants leaving these plans, a range of rollover products are provided through a broker-dealer bank.
15. Full Service Stable Value:
Our Full Service Stable Value products represent fixed rate options on investment funds offered to customers. These products contain an obligation to pay interest at a specified rate for a specific period of time. Upon termination these products repay account balances at market value immediately or may be liquidated at book value over time. Substantially all of these products are either fully or partially participating, with annual or semi-annual resets giving effect to previous investment experience. These products are issued through the general account, separate accounts or client-owned trusts. Profits from partially participating general account products result from the spread between the rate of return on investment assets and the interest rates credited to the customer, less expenses. For fully participating products, generally subject to a minimum interest rate guarantee, we earn fee income.
16. General Account:
Invested assets and policyholder liabilities and reserves for which the Company bears the investment risk. Excludes assets recognized for statutory purposes that are specifically allocated to a separate account. General account assets also include assets of the parent company, Prudential Financial, Inc.
17. Gibraltar Life Advisors:
Insurance representatives for Gibraltar Life.
18. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Administrative Operating Expense Ratios:
Ratio of administrative operating expenses (excluding commissions) to gross premiums, policy charges and fee income.
19. Group Life Insurance and Group Disability Insurance Benefits Ratios:
Ratio of policyholder benefits to earned premiums, policy charges and fee income.
20. Individual Annuity Account Values in General Account and Separate Account:
Amounts represent the breakdown of invested customer funds in annuities either written or reinsured by the Company.
21. Individual Annuities - Net Amounts at Risk:
Living Benefit Features - For guarantees of benefits that are payable at annuitization, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the present value of the minimum guaranteed annuity payments available to the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in excess of the current account balance. For guarantees of benefits that are payable at withdrawal, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the present value of the minimum guaranteed withdrawal payments available to the contractholder determined in accordance with the terms of the contract in excess of the current account balance. For guarantees of accumulation balances, the net amount at risk is generally defined as the guaranteed minimum accumulation balance minus the current account balance.
Death Benefit Features - Net amount at risk is generally defined as the current guaranteed minimum death benefit in excess of the current account balance at the balance sheet date.
 
 
22. Insurance and Annuity Benefits:
Total death benefits, annuity benefits, disability benefits, other policy benefits, and losses paid or incurred, under insurance and annuity contracts, plus the change in reserves for future policy benefits, losses and loss adjustment expenses.
23. International Life Planners:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations outside the United States, excluding Gibraltar Life Advisors. Excludes Life Planners associated with discontinued Philippine operations.
24. Non-recourse and Limited-recourse Debt:
Limited and non-recourse borrowing is where the holder is entitled to collect only against the assets pledged to the debt as collateral or has only very limited rights to collect against other assets.
25. Operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income):
Adjusted operating income after-tax (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension/postretirement benefits.
An alternative measure to operating return on average equity (based on adjusted operating income) is return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations). Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) represents income from continuing operations after-tax, for the Financial Services Businesses, attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. as determined in accordance with GAAP (giving effect to the direct equity adjustment for earnings per share calculation), annualized for interim periods, divided by average total attributed equity for the Financial Services Businesses. Return on average equity (based on income from continuing operations) is 10.52% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 9.63% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, 6.63% for the three months ended December 31, 2011, 17.58% for the three months ended September 30, 2011, 10.14% for the three months ended June 30, 2011, 7.50% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, 2.63% for the three months ended December 31, 2010.
26. Policy Persistency - Group Insurance:
Percentage of the premiums in force at the end of the prior year that are still in force at the end of the period (excluding Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance and Prudential Employee Benefit Plan).
27. Policy Persistency - International Insurance:
13 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their second policy year. 25 month persistency represents the percentage of policies issued that are still in force at the beginning of their third policy year.
28. Prudential Agents:
Insurance agents in our insurance operations in the United States.
29. Prudential Agent productivity:
Commissions on new sales of all products by Prudential Agents under contract for the entire period, divided by the number of those Prudential Agents. Excludes commissions on new sales by Prudential Agents hired or departed during the period. For interim reporting periods, the productivity measures are annualized.
30. Ratio of capital debt to total capitalization:
For the purposes of this ratio, we measure "debt" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs and 75% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, we measure "total capitalization" as the sum of senior debt supporting capital needs, 100% of Junior Subordinated Notes supporting capital needs, and attributed equity of the Financial Services Businesses excluding accumulated other comprehensive income related to unrealized gains and losses on investments and pension / postretirement benefits.
31. Separate Accounts:
Assets of our insurance companies allocated under certain policies and contracts that are segregated from the general account and other separate accounts. The policyholder or contractholder predominantly bears the risk of investments held in a separate account.
32. Wrap-Fee Products:
Investment products generating asset-based fees in which the funds of the customer are generally invested in other investment products such as mutual funds.
 
 
RATINGS AND INVESTOR INFORMATION
FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS
as of February 8, 2012
 
 
INVESTOR INFORMATION:
 
Common Stock:
Common Stock of Prudential Financial, Inc. is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol PRU.
 


