FILE:CI/CI-8K-20021018102800.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 5. .
Other Events
        On October 18, 2002, the registrant issued a news release, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 20 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
        (c) The exhibit accompanying this report is listed in the Index to Exhibits.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today announced that it will record an after-tax charge in the third quarter of approximately $315 million related to its run-off reinsurance operations.
PHILADELPHIA, October 18, 2002
CIGNA's reinsurance operations, which were discontinued in 2000 and are now an inactive business in run-off mode, participated in the primary layer of a workers' compensation reinsurance pool, which was formerly managed by Unicover Managers, Inc. The pool had obtained reinsurance for a significant portion of its exposure to claims, but disputes arose regarding this reinsurance coverage, leading to arbitration. Recently, the arbitration panel rendered a decision.
In addition, the run-off reinsurance operations also include reinsurance contracts assumed by CIGNA in the London market. As previously disclosed, the Company undertook a review of these exposures. This review is now complete.
Based on this review, the Company will record an after-tax charge of approximately $315 million for Unicover and London market exposures.
CIGNA Corporation and its subsidiaries constitute one of the largest investor owned employee benefits organizations in the United States. Its subsidiaries are major providers of employee benefits offered through the workplace, including health care products and services; group life, accident and disability insurance; retirement products and services; and investment management. As of June 30, 2002, CIGNA Corp. and its subsidiaries had consolidated assets of $89.2 billion and shareholders' equity of $5.2 billion. Full-year 2001 revenues totaled $19.1 billion. Web site: http://www.cigna.com
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this press release, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Such statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


