FILE:CI/CI-8K-20021220160015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Item 9. .
Regulation FD Disclosure
In a meeting with investors on Monday, December 23, 2002, officials of the Company expect to confirm the earnings guidance given in a conference call on November 1, 2002, which excludes certain nonrecurring items (such as the possible charge noted below). A transcript of the November 1 call is available at http://www.cigna.com/general/pdf/3q_2002_transcript.pdf.
st
The Company previously indicated in a press release filed on a Form 8-K dated November 26, 2002, that it expected to record a charge in the fourth quarter of 2002 related to settlement of claims brought by physicians and other health care providers. As a result of a federal court ruling issued on December 12, 2002, the Company is uncertain whether it will recognize the charge indicated in that press release.
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


