FILE:CI/CI-8K-20021101080027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 5. .
Other Events
        On November 1, 2002, the registrant issued a news release, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 20 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
        (c) The exhibit accompanying this report is listed in the Index to Exhibits.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 CIGNA Corporation (NYSE:CI) today reported third quarter 2002 operating incomeof $208 million ($1.49 per share), excluding $1.045 billion after-tax in net nonrecurring charges. Operating income for the third quarter 2001 was $273 million, or $1.83 per share, excluding an $8 million after-tax net nonrecurring gain.
PHILADELPHIA, November 1, 2002
1
2
3
3
For the first nine months of 2002, operating income was $762 million ($5.41 per share), excluding $1.043 billion after-tax in net nonrecurring charges. For the first nine months of 2001, operating income was $807 million ($5.31 per share), excluding a $38 million after-tax net nonrecurring gain. Operating income and segment earnings described below exclude the effects of nonrecurring items.
3
3
3
CIGNA ceased amortizing goodwill effective January 1, 2002, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." On a comparable basis, operating income for the third quarter of 2001 was $285 million ($1.91 per share) and for the first nine months of 2001 was $843 million ($5.55 per share), excluding the nonrecurring items noted above.
"Our results are below our expectations and our potential, reflecting shortfalls in our health care business. Our other employee benefits businesses continue to achieve earnings in line with our expectations and to make progress in the execution of their strategies. Aggressive actions are being taken to improve performance in our health care operations and we are confident that these actions will be successful," said H. Edward Hanway, CIGNA's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
After-Tax Operating Income (dollars in millions):
Premiums and Premium Equivalents (dollars in millions):
Membership (in thousands):
Other Statistics:
CIGNA also announced that the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission has informed the Company that it has opened an informal inquiry relating to CIGNA. The Company plans to cooperate fully with the SEC's inquiry.
Quarterly earnings and conference call information is available on CIGNA's web site (http://www.CIGNA.com) in the Investor Relations section.
* Notes:
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this press release, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. For example, this press release includes forward-looking information regarding CIGNA's outlook for its full year 2002 and 2003 earnings. Forward-looking statements made by CIGNA may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
* 2001 adjusted information excludes goodwill amortization. Pursuant to SFAS No. 142, CIGNA ceased amortization of goodwill as of January 1, 2002.
** Because consolidated earnings including the nonrecurring items above result in an overall loss for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2002, the number of shares used to compute EPS does not reflect the dilution caused by stock options and restricted stock grants. Such common stock equivalents (approximately 1.1 million shares for the third quarter and 1.7 million shares for the nine months of 2002) are excluded from the computation since their effect would decrease CIGNA's reported loss per share. If they were included in the computation of per share amounts, operating income (loss) as adjusted would have been $1.48 per share for the third quarter and $5.35 per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2002.


