FILE:CI/CI-8K-20021126175033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 5. .
Other Events
        On November 26, 2002, the registrant issued a news release, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 20 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
        (c) The exhibit accompanying this report is listed in the Index to Exhibits.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 CIGNA HealthCare announced today that it has reached an agreement to resolve bill payment claims brought on behalf of physicians and other health care providers in state and federal courts. As part of this agreement, CIGNA HealthCare will be implementing certain changes in its practices and procedures that will make it easier for doctors to do business with the company.
BLOOMFIELD, Conn., November 26, 2002
The changes are part of an agreement CIGNA HealthCare has reached with parties bringing claims on behalf of physicians and other health care providers in Kaiser v. CIGNA, a national class action lawsuit. That lawsuit, which was filed initially in a state court in Madison Co., Ill., was recently removed to federal court, where the settlement agreement was filed today.
The court must hold a hearing and approve the agreement before it can become final. If approved by the federal court, the agreement will encompass most of the claims, brought on behalf of health care providers, asserted in other state and federal jurisdictions, including the cases consolidated in federal court in Miami.
In conjunction with the agreement, CIGNA Corporation expects to recognize an after-tax charge in the fourth quarter of 2002 of approximately $50 million to $65 million. The estimated charge reflects insurance recoveries that CIGNA expects to receive. No significant amounts will be paid out until the settlement becomes final, which is expected in mid 2003.
"We have been working to improve our relationships with physicians and other health care providers over the past several years," said W. Allen Schaffer, M.D., CIGNA HealthCare senior vice president and chief medical officer. "During this period, we have made numerous changes, including streamlining utilization management and other processes, discontinuing many referral requirements, and improving communications with providers, all of which ultimately benefits our members. The agreement we are announcing today continues that process."
As part of the agreement, CIGNA HealthCare will:
"We are making accommodations in our business practices that will ease administrative burdens for physicians. This, in turn, will strengthen our business by improving our working relationships with those we count on to provide quality care to our members and customers. This agreement also enables us to use, in much more productive ways, resources we otherwise would have devoted to litigation," said Patrick E. Welch, president of CIGNA HealthCare.
CIGNA continues to believe that its claims processing actions over the years have been appropriate and is not acknowledging any liability or wrongdoing by entering into the agreement.
CIGNA representatives will discuss the agreement on a call that will take place at 8:30 a.m. EST on Wednesday, November 27, 2002. The call-in numbers for the conference call are as follows:
It is strongly suggested that you call by 8:15 a.m. EST on November 27. The operator will periodically provide instruction regarding the call, as well as procedures in the event of any audio quality problems on your line. A passcode (52122) is required to access the replay. The replay will be available from 11:30 a.m. EST on Wednesday, November 27, until 11:59 p.m. EST on Wednesday, December 11.
Additionally, the conference call will be available on a live Webcast through . Please note that this feature will be in listen-only mode.
http://www.vcall.com
CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) and its subsidiaries constitute one of the largest investor-owned employee benefits organizations in the United States. Its subsidiaries are major providers of employee benefits offered through the workplace, including health care products and services; group life, accident and disability insurance; retirement products and services; and investment management.
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this press release, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. For example, this press release includes forward-looking information regarding, among other things, an anticipated fourth quarter 2002 charge. Forward-looking statements made by CIGNA may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


