FILE:CI/CI-8K-20031031075940.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Item 12. .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 31, 2003, CIGNA issued a press release announcing results for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported net income for the third quarter of 2003 of $195 million, or $1.39 per share, compared with a net loss of $877 million, or $6.27 per share, for the same period last year.
PHILADELPHIA, October 31, 2003
1
The improvement in net income for the quarter primarily reflects reduced losses in CIGNA's run-off reinsurance operations.
Income from continuing operations before realized investment results and special items was $204 million or $1.45 per share for the third quarter of 2003 versus $202 million or $1.45 per share for the third quarter of 2002.
2
"Results for the quarter reflect solid sequential improvement in CIGNA's health care results and continued strong performance in our disability and life, retirement, and international businesses," said H. Edward Hanway, CIGNA's chairman and chief executive officer. "The business improvement and expense control initiatives implemented in CIGNA HealthCare are having a positive impact, as expected, and we are focused on continued strong execution of those initiatives."
The following is a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before realized investment gains (losses) and special items to net income (loss) (after-tax; dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
Premiums and Premium Equivalents (dollars in millions):
5
Medical Membership in continuing operations (in thousands):
Quarterly earnings, the Quarterly Statistical Supplement, and the Statistical Supplement of Historical Segment Data for the Health Care segment and the Disability and Life segment, reflecting the reporting changes implemented this quarter, are available on CIGNA's web site (http://www.cigna.com) in the Most Recent Disclosures section of the Investor Relations section (http://www.cigna.com/general/investor/disclosures.html). A link to the conference call on which management will review third quarter 2003 results and provide a full year 2003 and 2004 outlook is available in the Events section of the Investor Relations section (http://www.cigna.com/general/investor/calendar.html).
*Notes:
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this press release, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements made by CIGNA may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(1) Prior period information has been reclassified to reflect the results of Lovelace Health Systems, Inc. as discontinued operations.
(2) See Exhibit 2 for a reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations before realized investment gains (losses) and special items to income (loss) from continuing operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). CIGNA's net income (loss) is equal to income (loss) from continuing operations plus the results of discontinued operations.
* Income (loss) from continuing operations is presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Net income is equal to income (loss) from continuing operations plus the results of discontinued operations.
** Because of the overall loss from continuing operations for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2002 (including the special items above), the number of shares used to compute EPS for those periods does not reflect the dilution caused by common stock equivalents (i.e., stock options and restricted stock grants). Such common stock equivalents (approximately 1.1 million shares for the third quarter and 1.7 million shares for the nine months of 2002) are excluded from the computation since their effect would decrease CIGNA's reported loss per share. If they were included in the computation of per share amounts, income from continuing operations before realized investment gains (losses) and special items would have been $1.43 per share for the three months ended September 30, 2002 and $5.32 per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2002.


