FILE:CI/CI-8K-20030903172142.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 5. .
Other Events
        On September 3, 2003, the registrant issued a news release, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
        (c) The exhibit accompanying this report is listed in the Index to Exhibits.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
BLOOMFIELD, Conn., September 3, 2003  CIGNA HealthCare announced today that it has reached a settlement with some 700,000 physicians nationwide involved in class-action lawsuits filed in state and federal courts. As part of the agreement, CIGNA HealthCare will institute new business practices that will strengthen the working relationship between physicians and the company.
"This is a very positive outcome for all concerned," said W. Allen Schaffer, M.D., chief medical officer, CIGNA HealthCare. "It underscores our ongoing effort to make it easier for doctors to work closely with us toward a common goal  protecting the health and well-being of some 12 million CIGNA HealthCare medical members who depend on us to deliver access to quality health care programs and services."
"CIGNA is to be commended for agreeing to change its business practices and improve its relationships with practicing physicians and their patients," said Donald J. Palmisano, MD, JD, president of the American Medical Association. "We are hopeful other health insurers will follow CIGNA's example and work cooperatively with physicians on behalf of patients."
If approved by the court, the settlement would resolve for CIGNA HealthCare and the plaintiffs the issues reflected in  a national class action lawsuit relating to the claims payment practices of certain companies that provide managed health care services. That case is pending in federal court in the Southern District of Florida (Miami). The settlement announced today also encompasses and brings to final resolution all physician claims in a similar case   originally filed in Illinois state court and subsequently transferred to the federal court in Miami.
Shane v. Humana
Kaiser v. CIGNA
Under the settlement agreement to be presented to the court on September 4, CIGNA HealthCare will, among other things:
Page 1 of 4
"The initiatives we are implementing in connection with this settlement illustrate in a compelling way our firm commitment to further enhance the quality of service we deliver to CIGNA HealthCare customers and members," said H. Edward Hanway, chairman and chief executive officer, CIGNA Corporation. "From 1999 through the course of this agreement, CIGNA will have spent in excess of $400 million on the business process and service initiatives that the agreement covers. This settlement sends a clear message that we will continue to strengthen our provider relationships, and thus improve the competitive performance and position of CIGNA HealthCare."
The settlement announced today has been endorsed by 19 state and/or local medical societies in addition to the AMA. They are the following:
Page 2 of 4
"Today marks a new era in health care delivery," said Tim Norbeck, executive director of the Connecticut State Medical Society.  "CIGNA is to be congratulated for its openness in support of physicians and their patients."
CIGNA Corporation recorded an after-tax charge in the fourth quarter of 2002 of $50 million related to the health care provider class action litigation. CIGNA expects to record an additional after-tax charge of approximately $40 million in the third quarter of 2003 for this settlement and other non-physician health care litigation. The estimated charge reflects expected insurance recoveries. No significant amounts will be disbursed until the settlement becomes final, most likely in early 2004.
CIGNA Corporation expects full year 2003 and third quarter 2003 consolidated income from continuing operations before realized investments results and special items (which include the estimated settlement charge described in this press release) to be in the range of $5.00-$5.25 per share and $1.15-$1.35 per share, respectively. This is consistent with the earnings outlook provided on CIGNA's August 1, 2003 conference call. A transcript of the August 1 call is available at .
st
http://www.cigna.com/general/pdf/2Q03_transcript.pdf
CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) is headquartered in Philadelphia, and its subsidiaries constitute one of the largest publicly owned employee benefits organizations in the United States. Its subsidiaries are major providers of employee benefits offered through the workplace, including health care products and services; group life, accident and disability insurance; retirement products and services; and investment management. As of June 30, 2003, CIGNA Corporation had consolidated assets of $91.3 billion and shareholders' equity of $4.2 billion. Full-year 2002 revenues totaled $19.3 billion. Web site: .
http://www.cigna.com
Page 3 of 4
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this press release, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements made by CIGNA may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this press release include the Company's statements regarding its anticipated third quarter 2003 charge, cash outflows resulting from the settlement and CIGNA's earnings estimates for the full year 2003 and third quarter 2003. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Page 4 of 4


