FILE:CI/CI-8K-20030909080007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 9. .
Regulation FD Disclosure
Company officials will be meeting with certain analysts and investors at a conference today, September 9, 2003. At this conference, Company officials will state that the Company expects full year 2003 and third quarter 2003 consolidated income from continuing operations before realized investments results and special items (which include the estimated settlement charge described in the Company's September 3, 2003 press release) to be in the range of $5.00-$5.25 per share and $1.15-$1.35 per share, respectively. This is consistent with the earnings outlook provided on CIGNA's August 1, 2003 conference call. A transcript of the August 1 call is available at .
st
http://www.cigna.com/general/pdf/2Q03_transcript.pdf
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this press release, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements made by CIGNA may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this report include the Company's statements regarding its earnings estimates for the full year 2003 and third quarter 2003. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


