FILE:CI/CI-8K-20030801080002.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 7. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
        (c) The exhibit accompanying this report is listed in the Index to Exhibits.
Item 12. .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 1, 2003, CIGNA issued a press release announcing results for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported a net loss for the second quarter of 2003 of $53 million, or $0.38 per share, compared with net income of $214 million, or $1.50 per share, for the same period last year.
PHILADELPHIA, August 1, 2003
1
The loss for the quarter resulted from a $286 million after-tax charge in CIGNA's Run-off Reinsurance Operations segment. Relative to the prior year, the results also reflect lower income in the Employee Health Care, Life, and Disability Benefits segment, partially offset by higher realized investment results.
Income from continuing operations before realized investment results and special items was $158 million or $1.13 per share for the second quarter of 2003 versus $280 million or $1.96 per share for the second quarter of 2002.
2
"The results from continuing operations reported today are consistent with our earnings preannouncement and reflect solid performance in our specialty health care, retirement, group disability and life and international operations. We continue to take aggressive action to improve results in our health care business. I am confident that the initiatives we are implementing to improve health care results will be successful," said H. Edward Hanway, CIGNA's chairman and chief executive officer, who also recently assumed direct responsibility for leading CIGNA's health care operations.
The following is a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before realized investment gains (losses) and special items to net income (loss) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
Segment Earnings (after-tax, dollars in millions):
Premiums and Premium Equivalents (dollars in millions):
5
Membership in continuing operations (in thousands):
On July 30, 2003, CIGNA announced that it is exploring strategic alternatives to further maximize the value of its retirement and investment services business. Options under consideration include placing the retirement and investment services business in a separate operating company with its own financial ratings or a possible divestiture.
Quarterly earnings and the Quarterly Statistical Supplement are available on CIGNA's web site (http://www.cigna.com) in the Most Recent Disclosures section of the Investor Relations section (http://www.cigna.com/general/investor/disclosures.html) and a link to the conference call is available in the Events section of the Investor Relations section (http://www.cigna.com/general/investor/calendar.html).
*Notes:
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this press release, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements made by CIGNA may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this press release include the Company's earnings estimates for the full year 2003. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(1) Prior period information has been reclassified to reflect the results of Lovelace Health Systems, Inc. as discontinued operations.
(2) Includes pre-tax losses of $312 million and $256 million for the second quarter and six months of 2003 from futures contracts entered into as part of a program to manage equity market risks in CIGNA's run-off reinsurance operations. CIGNA recorded corresponding credits in benefits, losses and settlement expenses to decrease liabilities for certain specialty life reinsurance contracts.
(3) See Exhibit 2 for a reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations before realized investment gains (losses) and special items to income (loss) from continuing operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). CIGNA's net income (loss) is equal to income (loss) from continuing operations plus the results of discontinued operations.
CIGNA Corporation Supplemental Financial Information Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Before Realized Investment Gains (Losses) and Special Items (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
* Income (loss) from continuing operations is presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Net income is equal to income (loss) from continuing operations plus the results of discontinued operations.
** Because of the overall loss from continuing operations for the three months ended June 30, 2003 (including the special items above), the number of shares used to compute EPS for the quarter does not reflect the dilution caused by stock options and restricted stock grants. Such common stock equivalents (approximately 1.0 million shares) are excluded from the computation since their effect would decrease CIGNA's reported loss per share. If they were included in the computation of per share amounts, income from continuing operations before realized investment gains (losses) and special items would have been $1.12 per share for the three months ended June 30, 2003.


