FILE:CI/CI-8K-20031118111446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 5. .
Other Events
On November 17, 2003, CIGNA Corporation announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to sell its retirement benefits business to Prudential Financial, Inc. for $2.1 billion. A copy of the press release announcing this sale is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference.
Item 7. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
        (c) The exhibit accompanying this report is listed in the Index to Exhibits.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

     
Transaction positions CIGNA for growth as a leading provider of health care benefits and disability, life and accident insurance programs for employers and their employees
PHILADELPHIA, November 17, 2003  CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) announced today that it has signed a definitive agreement to sell its retirement benefits business  excluding its corporate life insurance unit and its investment advisory operation, TimesSquare Capital Management, Inc.  to Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE: PRU) for $2.1 billion. The transaction, subject to regulatory approval and other contingencies, is expected to be completed by March 31, 2004.
1
"We'll now concentrate fully on being a leading provider of health care and disability, life and accident insurance benefits programs for employers and their employees," said H. Edward Hanway, chairman and chief executive officer, CIGNA Corporation. "This transaction enables us to pursue that objective with a heightened sense of urgency  focused exclusively on delivering the health and insurance solutions our customers demand. We intend to capitalize on our considerable strengths in these areas to accelerate our profitable growth.
"The sale is certainly a positive development," Hanway said. "Prudential, committed to growth in the markets served successfully by our retirement organization, is acquiring a profitable, well-managed operation with a broad range of products and programs and a team of knowledgeable, experienced professionals. Moreover, retirement plan sponsors and participants can expect to receive from Prudential the same high level of quality, product innovation and service they have come to expect from us."
CIGNA expects to use the proceeds to support strong subsidiary and parent company ratings, ensure financial flexibility of the parent company, support the growth of its existing businesses, and return capital to investors by reducing corporate debt and repurchasing shares of outstanding stock.
CIGNA moving forward
As a leading health and related insurance benefits specialist, CIGNA is equipped to deliver innovative business solutions that meet the needs of customers for cost-effective, high-quality health care benefits, and disability, life and accident insurance programs. Moving forward, CIGNA intends to:
"This agreement marks an important new phase in our development as a company," Hanway said. "Our goal, now and for the future, is to be the industry's leading provider of health and insurance benefits. We'll achieve this objective by building on the good progress we've made to date in improving the performance of our health care operations and enhancing the already strong market position of our disability, life and accident insurance businesses.
"We will also begin immediately to reshape the company for maximum operating efficiency," Hanway continued. "This is a critical part of the process. We'll realign our operations and reduce our overall cost structure to become even more competitive and ensure that we're in the best possible position to meet the needs of our customers. This will be an aggressive and far-reaching effort that will fuel our success in the marketplace."
For more information on the transaction, Retirement clients may visit
http://www.cignaretirementnews.com
*Note:
CIGNA representatives will discuss the topics covered in this news release on a call that will take place at 8:30 a.m. EST on November 18, 2003. The call-in numbers for the conference call are as follows:
     1-800-406-5345 (Domestic)      1-913-981-5571 (International)      1-888-203-1112 (Domestic Replay)      1-719-457-0820 (International Replay)
It is strongly suggested that you call by 8:15 a.m. EST on November 18, 2003. The operator will periodically provide instruction regarding the call, as well as procedures in the event of any audio quality problems on your line.
Additionally, the conference call will be available on a live webcast through . Please note that this feature will be in listen-only mode.
http://www.vcall.com
A replay of this conference call will be available from 11:30 a.m. EST on November 18, 2003, until 11:59 p.m. EST on December 4, 2003. The passcode required to access the replay is 701238.
.
Web site:
http://www.cigna.com
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this press release, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements made by CIGNA may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this press release include the Company's statements regarding the sale of its retirement benefits business, expected uses of proceeds and the Company's plans for the future. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


