FILE:CI/CI-8K-20030502080231.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 7. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
        (c) The exhibit accompanying this report is listed in the Index to Exhibits.
Item 9. .
Regulation FD Disclosure (Intended to be furnished under "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition")
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto is intended to be furnished under "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition," and is being furnished under "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure," in accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8216 dated March 27, 2003.
On May 2, 2003, CIGNA issued a press release announcing results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 20 and incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported consolidated net income, which includes income from continuing operations and income from discontinued operations, for the first quarter of 2003 of $236 million, or $1.68 per share, compared with $218 million, or $1.52 per share, for the same period last year.
PHILADELPHIA, May 2, 2003
1
First quarter 2003 earnings from continuing operations before realized investment losses and special items were $205 million ($1.46 per share). First quarter 2002 earnings on the same basis were $275 million ($1.92 per share).
2
"Results for the quarter reflect solid execution on key initiatives in our health care operations and strong performance in our other employee benefits businesses," said H. Edward Hanway, CIGNA's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The following is a reconciliation of earnings from continuing operations before realized investment gains (losses) and special items to net income (dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
Segment Earnings (after-tax, dollars in millions):
Premiums and Premium Equivalents (dollars in millions):
5
Membership in continuing operations (in thousands):
Quarterly earnings, the Quarterly Statistical Supplement and conference call information are available on CIGNA's web site ) in the Current Disclosures section of the Investor Relations section ).
(http://www.CIGNA.com
(http://www.cigna.com/general/investor/disclosures.html
*Notes:
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in this press release, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements made by CIGNA may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
CIGNA CORPORATION
COMPARATIVE SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL RESULTS
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
(1) Prior period information has been reclassified to reflect the results of Lovelace Health Systems, Inc. as discontinued operations.
(2) Includes first quarter 2003 pre-tax gain of $56 million from futures contracts (to manage equity risks in run-off reinsurance operations). CIGNA recorded a corresponding expense to increase liabilities for certain specialty life reinsurance contracts.
(3) See Exhibit 2 for a reconciliation of earnings (loss) from continuing operations before realized investment gains (losses) and special items to income (loss) from continuing operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). CIGNA's net income is equal to income (loss) from continuing operations plus the results of discontinued operations.
(4) Does not include first quarter 2003 pre-tax gain of $6 million ($4 million after-tax: HMO $2 million; Indemnity $2 million) for other postretirement benefits for employees terminated in the first quarter of 2003.
CIGNA Corporation Supplemental Financial Information Earnings (Loss) from Continuing Operations Before Realized Investment Gains (Losses) and Special Items (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
* Income (loss) from continuing operations is presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Net income is equal to income (loss) from continuing operations plus the results of discontinued operations.


