FILE:CI/CI-8K-20040804080104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Item 12. .
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
        On August 4, 2004, CIGNA issued a news release announcing results for the second quarter 2004. The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) today reported net income of $515 million, or $3.67 per share, for the second quarter of 2004 compared with a net loss of $53 million, or $0.38 per share, for the same period last year. The increase primarily reflects gain recognition on the sale of CIGNA's retirement benefits business and higher Health Care segment earnings. In addition, the year-over-year increase reflects a $286 million after-tax charge recorded in the second quarter of 2003 to strengthen certain reserves in the inactive run-off reinsurance business.
PHILADELPHIA, August 4, 2004
1
CIGNA's income from continuing operations before realized investment results and special items was $246 million, or $1.75 per share, for the second quarter of 2004 versus $158 million, or $1.13 per share, for the second quarter of 2003. The increase primarily reflects higher earnings in the Health Care, Disability and Life, and International segments.
2
"Our second quarter earnings reflect a strong performance by all of our employee benefits businesses," said H. Edward Hanway, CIGNA's chairman and chief executive officer. "The continued earnings improvement in our health care business reflects effective medical management, disciplined underwriting, expense reduction initiatives, and strong service results. Our medical management model continues to drive improved utilization results while delivering superior quality outcomes. Our continued strong execution of the fundamentals establishes a solid foundation for us to improve membership results."
The following is a reconciliation of income from continuing operations before realized investment results and special items to net income (after-tax; dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
3
Adjusted Segment Earnings (after-tax, dollars in millions):
Premiums and Fees (dollars in millions):
Medical Membership (in thousands):
This quarterly earnings release and the Quarterly Statistical Supplement are available on CIGNA's web site in the Investor Relations, Most Recent Disclosures section (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/disclosures_recent.html). A link to the conference call on which management will review second quarter 2004 results and provide full year and third quarter 2004 outlook is available in the Investor Relations, Event Calendar section of CIGNA's website (http://www.cigna.com/general/about/investor/events.html).
*Notes:
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this press release include information regarding, among other things, the company's earnings estimates for the third quarter and full year of 2004. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


