FILE:CI/CI-8K-20041130164454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure.
        On November 30, 2004, CIGNA issued a news release announcing an increase in its consolidated earnings expectations for full years 2004 and 2005. The news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, is incorporated by reference herein, and shall be considered to be filed under the Exchange Act. Company officials expect to engage in discussions with analysts and investors during the remainder of the week following the news release and to meet with certain analysts and investors at a conference on December 1, 2004. In these meetings and discussions, Company officials expect to reiterate the Company's increased consolidated earnings expectations for full years 2004 and 2005.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
                               Exhibit 99.1 News Release dated November 30, 2004.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

[CIGNA LOGO] Exhibit 99.1
News Release
FOR RELEASE:   
Immediate
CONTACT:   
Timothy McGarrity, Investor Relations 215-761-6130                          Wendell Potter, Media Relations 215-761-4450
 CIGNA Corporation (NYSE:CI) announced that it expects to report full year 2004 consolidated income from continuing operations before realized investment results and special items of $950 million to $975 million. The company also said it expects full year 2005 consolidated income from continuing operations before realized investment results and special items of $750 million to $825 million.
PHILADELPHIA, PA, November 30, 2004
1
The company had previously expected consolidated income from continuing operations before realized investment results and special items of $925 million to $950 million for full year 2004 and $745 million to $810 million for full year 2005.
The increased expectations reflect stronger than anticipated performance of the company's health care business, primarily due to continuing improvement in medical management.
"Our increased earnings outlook demonstrates our strength in medical management," said H. Edward Hanway, CIGNA's chairman and chief executive officer. "CIGNA's emphasis on medical management and clinical quality continues to deliver cost effective solutions to employers and quality health care outcomes to our members."
CIGNA Corporation (NYSE: CI) and its subsidiaries constitute one of the largest publicly owned providers of health care, disability, life and accident insurance benefits. Web site:
http://www.cigna.com.
Footnote:
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
CIGNA and its representatives may from time to time make written and oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in press releases, in CIGNA's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its reports to shareholders and in meetings with analysts and investors. Forward-looking statements may contain information about financial prospects, economic conditions, trends and other uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this press release include information regarding the company's earnings estimates for the full years of 2004 and 2005. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. CIGNA cautions that actual results could differ materially from those that management expects, depending on the outcome of certain factors. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements include:
This list of important factors is not intended to be exhaustive. There may be other risk factors that would preclude CIGNA from realizing the forward-looking statements. While CIGNA may periodically update this discussion of risk factors, CIGNA does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that may be made by or on behalf of CIGNA prior to its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


